Cloud   Blog   Contact sales   Get started for free
Cloud   Blog   Contact sales   Get started for free
Cloud      Blog                      Contact sales        Get started for free



                    AI & Machine Learning


  Announcing advanced
governance capabilities for
  Vertex AI Agent Builder
                     December 19, 2025




      Michael Vakoc                     John Murray
  Product Manager, Google          Group Product Manager,
           Cloud                       Google Cloud



 At Google Cloud, we continue to make critical
 investments to Vertex AI Agent Builder, our
 comprehensive and open platform, enabling you to build
 faster, scale efficiently, and govern with enterprise-
 grade security.
 Today, with the integration of the Cloud API Registry,
Cloud      Blog                      Contact sales
 we’re excited to bring enhanced tool governance
                                                        Get started for free

 capabilities to Vertex AI Agent Builder. With this latest
 update, administrators can now manage available tools
 for developers across your organization directly in Vertex
 AI Agent Builder Console, and developers can leverage
 tools managed by the registry with a new
  ApiRegistry .

 With this, organizations can anchor agents in the
 embedded security and operational controls that they
 already use, enabling deploying and managing agents as
 a digital workforce.

 Following last month's expansion of our Agent Builder
 platform, we are also introducing new capabilities across
 the entire agent lifecycle to help developers build faster
 using new ADK capabilities and visual tools, and scale
 with high performance through the expansion of Agent
 Engine services, including the general availability of
 support for sessions and memory. Read more below.



 1. Govern your tools with
 confidence
 Building a useful agent requires the agent to have
 access to the necessary tools. However, developers
 today spend a significant amount of time building their
 tools for each agent, resulting in duplicate work. This
 approach also presents challenges for administrators
 who want to control what data and tools agents can
 access.

 We are bringing enhanced tool governance with the
 integration of Cloud API Registry in the Vertex AI Agent
 Builder Console. This acts as a private registry that
 administrators can use to curate and govern a set of
 approved tools for developers to use across their
Cloud      Blog
 organization, providing:
                                   Contact sales            Get started for free

   Pre-built tools for Google services: We recently
   announced MCP support for Google services like
   BigQuery and Google Maps, which will be available
   for use in Vertex AI Agent Builder.
   Support for custom MCP servers: Unlock your
   entire API estate for the agentic age. Apigee now
   empowers you to transform your existing managed
   APIs into custom MCP servers, bridging your
   established digital assets with modern AI workflows.
   Additionally, by bringing these tools from multiple
   clouds into Apigee API hub, you help ensure your
   agent developers have instant and secure access to
   a curated catalog through the Cloud API Registry.
   Enhanced tool management: Administrators using
   the new experience in Vertex AI Agent Builder to
   view, govern, and manage tools can now ensure the
   right tools are available to developers in their
   organization.
   Simplified tool access: For developers, Agent
   Development Kit (ADK) introduces support of Cloud
   API Registry, introducing a new ApiRegistry
   object to easily leverage managed tools.




     The demo above showcases the new user journey for
   managing and governing tools directly within the Vertex AI
                   Agent Builder Console




 2. Build your AI agents faster
 Last month, we released Gemini 3 Pro, our most
 intelligent model, to every developer and enterprise
 team. It’s the best model in the world for multimodal
 understanding, and our most powerful agentic model
 yet. With full compatibility with ADK, you can now build,
 test, and deploy powerful AI agents with greater
Cloud        Blog                    Contact sales
 reliability and confidence. We are introducing new
                                                           Get started for free

 capabilities to help you move from concept to interactive
 product:

   Full ADK support of Gemini 3 Pro and Flash: ADK
   now fully supports Gemini 3 Pro and Flash, allowing
   you to build reliable, production-ready agents.

   ADK for TypeScript: We are extending ADK support
   for TypeScript, ensuring you can leverage the latest
   capabilities in ADK directly in whatever language you
   choose.
   State management in ADK: We've made significant
   improvements to our agentic state management
   within ADK, which is the system for an AI agent to
   maintain context and memory during and across
   conversations. New improvements include:

     Recovery from failure: If a conversation
     crashes due to an error, ADK now restores the
     state natively, requiring no additional work from
     the developer.
     Continue with human-in-the-loop: You can
     now pause for human input anywhere, even
     inside complex workflows. ADK automatically
     remembers exactly where the agent stopped
     and resumes immediately after approval, so you
     don't have to write extra code to track progress.
     Rewind state and context: Developers can now
     rewind to any point in the conversation and
     invalidate all interactions after that point so the
     user can remove the “polluted” context rather
     than send a new message. This allows users to
     try different approaches to solving a problem
     without having to open new sessions.

   Interactions API integration: ADK and the
   Agent2Agent protocol (A2A) now support the new
   Interactions API, providing a consistent way to
   manage multimodal input/output (text, audio, visual)
   across your agents, simplifying integration with
Cloud       Blog
   client applications.
                                    Contact sales                   Get started for free

   A2UI: Built on top of A2A protocol, A2UI is an early-
   stage UI toolkit to facilitate LLM-generated UIs for
   remote agents. This allows you to enable agents to
   pass shared UI widgets and components directly to
   user-facing applications without the security risks
   and overhead of iframes or sending executable
   code, allowing you to build rich user experiences
   securely.




 Above is a demo showcasing A2UI in action where the user uploads a
 photo, a remote agent uses Gemini to understand it, and dynamically
 generates a custom form using A2UI for the specific needs of the
 customer.




 You can start building today with adk-samples on GitHub
 or on Vertex AI Agent Garden, a growing repository of
 curated agent samples, solutions, and tools designed to
 accelerate your development and support one-click
 deployment of your agents built with ADK. Access our
 Agent Starter Pack, a template collection that provides a
 production-ready foundation for building, testing, and
 deploying AI agents.



 3. Scale your AI agents
 effectively
 Once you’ve built your agent, the next challenge is going
Cloud      Blog                     Contact sales
 into a production environment. That’s why we continue
                                                        Get started for free

 to expand the managed services available in Agent
 Engine to provide the core capabilities needed to scale
 your agents.

   Manage context with confidence: We are moving
   Agent Engine sessions and memory bank to General
   Availability (GA). You can now use Agent Engine to
   manage both short-term and long-term memory for
   your production workloads. This allows your agents
   to maintain context across different interactions,
   which is critical for delivering helpful, personalized
   responses at scale. This product is powered by
   Google Cloud AI Research’s novel research method
   (accepted by ACL 2025), using a topic-based
   approach that sets a new standard for how agents
   learn and recall information.

   Expanded regional support for Agent Engine
   services: All Agent Engine services are now
   available in seven additional regions worldwide. To
   learn more, refer to the documentation.

   Pricing updates for Agent Engine: We lowered
   pricing for the Agent Engine runtime and will begin
   billing for additional Agent Engine services starting
   on January 28, 2026. You can review the Agent
   Engine pricing documentation for additional detail
   and hypothetical agent cost scenarios.



    Product       Resource         SKU      Prior           New
                                            pricing



    Runtime       vCPU /           8A55-    $0.0994         $0.
                  hour             0B95-
                                   B7DC
Cloud     Blog Memory /          Contact
                              0B45-      sales
                                      $0.0105         Get started for free
                                                     $0.
                GB-hr         6103-
                              6EC1


  Code          vCPU /        448F-     Free         $0.
  Execution     hour          9419-
                              C2EE


                Memory /      AC0F-     Free         $0.
                GB-hr         52B0-
                              CE44


  Sessions      Stored        0D5A-     Free         $0.
                session       FCD2-                  eve
                events        CB63


  Memory        Memories      E954-     Free         $0.
  Bank          stored        622B-                  mem
                per           C859
                month                                (LLM
                                                     sep


                Memories      6DEC-     Free         $0.
                retrieved     3026-                  mem
                              DDFF


 The table above shows updated pricing for Agent Engine
 services and when the changes take place.



 How customers are achieving
 more with Agent Builder
     "Burns & McDonnell uses Vertex AI Agent Builder to
     transform how organizational knowledge is applied
     across the enterprise. With Experience IQ, we are
     building an AI agent using ADK that turns decades
     of project data and employee experience into real-
Cloudtime, Blog                     Contact sales        Get started for free
           actionable intelligence. Vertex AI enables this
       innovation to scale responsibly by combining
       deterministic business rules with probabilistic
       reasoning, making AI a trusted operational
       capability — not just a productivity tool. This agent
       helps teams quickly identify the right experience,
       reduce manual effort in staffing and planning, and
       make higher-confidence decisions grounded in
       verified data. With Vertex AI, Burns & McDonnell
       isn’t just managing knowledge — we are activating
       experience to drive faster, more confident
       decisions." - Matt Olson, Chief Innovation Officer,
       Burns & McDonnell

       “Payhawk uses Vertex AI Agent Builder to transform
       agents into financial assistants that truly ‘know’ our
       customers. Leveraging Memory Bank, we moved
       from stateless interactions to long-term context
       retention, allowing agents to recall user constraints
       and historical patterns with continuity. For example,
       our Financial Controller Agent now remembers
       habits like expensing small meals and auto-submits
       them, reducing submission time by over 50%.
       Similarly, our Travel Agent proactively applies
       preferences like aisle seats. This significantly drops
       cognitive load, allowing agents to anticipate needs
       based on past behavior rather than just reacting to
       prompts.” - Diyan Bogdanov, Principal Applied AI
       Engineer, Payhawk

       "Gurunavi uses Vertex AI Agent Builder to power
       'UMAME!', an AI restaurant discovery app that
       leverages Agent Engine's Memory Bank to
       overcome a significant challenge: achieving a deep
       understanding of user context. Unlike conventional
       prompt-based systems, our agent leverages
       memory bank to remember a user's past actions,
       preferences, and temporal patterns to proactively
       present the best options. This eliminates the need
     for manual searches, creating a seamless
Cloudexperience.
          Blog We project this context-aware
                                  Contact sales            Get started for free

      capability will improve user experience by 30% or
      more. We view this memory function as a non-
      negotiable feature for helping everyone forge new
      culinary experiences together with AI.” - Toshiaki
      Iwamoto, CTO, Gurunavi

      “SeaArt Entertainment uses Vertex AI Agent Builder
      to personalize the creative experience for digital
      artists. Before Memory Bank, our AI agents could
      not reliably remember users’ preferences. For
      example, when users worked on complex
      multimodal art projects, they had to repeatedly
      explain the same details — like their favorite
      character styles or model choices — across
      sessions. After integrating Memory Bank, our
      agents are now able to recall past conversations,
      actions, and user preferences. We especially like
      that the agent can seamlessly remember context
      across sessions, making interactions feel more
      natural and personal." - Aleksei Savin, Lead of
      Multimodal AI Platform, SeaArt Entertainment



 Get started
 Vertex AI Agent Builder provides the unified platform to
 manage the entire agent lifecycle, helping you close the
 gap from prototype to a production-ready agent. To
 explore these new features, visit the updated Agent
 Builder documentation and release notes.

 If you’re a startup and you’re interested in learning more
 about building and deploying agents, download the
 Startup Technical Guide: AI Agents. This guide provides
 the knowledge needed to go from an idea to prototype
 to scale, whether your goals are to automate tasks,
 enhance creativity, or launch entirely new user
 experiences for your startup.
               Cloud
                Posted in AIBlog
                             & Machine Learning—APIContact sales
                                                    Management           Get started for free




Related articles




            AI & Machine Learning                               Customers

 Welcome to Gemini at Work 2026:                 Innovation in Ireland: How Irish
  Introducing the Gemini agent                 brands scale with Gemini Enterprise
       By Thomas Kurian • 29-minute read             By Sandeep Khanna • 5-minute read




              AI infrastructure                          AI & Machine Learning

What’s new in AI infrastructure and               Empower your agents with the
  orchestration in September                      Google Cloud CLI remote MCP
        By Alex Barrett • 19-minute read                     server
                                                     By Prosper Nwankpa • 6-minute read




Follow us
           Cloud       Blog                    Contact sales   Get started for free
       Google Cloud   Google Cloud Products   Privacy Terms


Help      ‪English‬
