# CONTENTS

     Overview

     Get started

     Next steps

     Reference


Daytona Documentation
      Copy for LLM        View as Markdown                                                  Open


Daytona is a secure and elastic infrastructure for running AI-generated code.


Daytona provides full composable computers — sandboxes — with complete isolation, a dedicated
kernel, filesystem, network stack, and allocated vCPU, RAM, and disk.


Sandboxes are the core component of the Daytona platform, spinning up in under 90ms from code
to execution and running any code in Python, TypeScript, and JavaScript. Built on OCI/Docker
compatibility, massive parallelization, and unlimited persistence, sandboxes deliver consistent,
predictable environments for AI, agent and reinforcement learning workflows.


Agents and developers interact with sandboxes programmatically using the SDKs, API, and CLI.
Operations span sandbox lifecycle management, filesystem operations, process and code
execution, runtime configuration, and more.


Our stateful environment snapshots enable persistent agent operations across sessions, making
Daytona the ideal foundation for AI agent architectures.



Get started
 1    Create an account → app.daytona.io
 2    Get an API key → app.daytona.io/dashboard/keys


       PYTHON        TYPESCRIPT     RUBY      GO    JAVA       API      CLI


 3    Install the Python SDK
        pip install daytona



4     Create a sandbox and run code



        # Import the Daytona SDK
        from daytona import Daytona, DaytonaConfig

        # Define the configuration
        config = DaytonaConfig(api_key="YOUR_API_KEY") # Replace with your API key

        # Initialize the Daytona client
        daytona = Daytona(config)

        # Create the Sandbox instance
        sandbox = daytona.create()

        # Run code
        response = sandbox.process.code_run('print("Hello World")')
        print(response.result)




Next steps
Daytona provides core platform resources for managing sandboxes, environments, and storage.




    Sandboxes                                        Snapshots

    Isolated runtime environments you can manage     Persistent captures of sandbox state you can use
    programmatically to run code.                    to create sandboxes.




    Volumes                                          Regions

    Shared file access across sandboxes.             Geographic locations where sandboxes run.




Reference
Daytona provides a comprehensive set of resources for developers and agents to get started and
build on the platform. You can find the following resources in the documentation:


   Daytona SDKs: TypeScript, Python, Ruby, Go, Java
   Daytona APIs: Platform (OpenAPI), Toolbox (OpenAPI), Analytics (OpenAPI)
   Daytona CLI: Mac/Linux/Windows
   Daytona LLMs: llms.txt, llms-full.txt
   Daytona Sitemap: sitemap-0.xml
   Daytona Skills: agent skills
   Daytona Markdown: suffix pages with .md (e.g sandboxes.md)




                                                                                        NEXT
                                                                              Authentication


 Need help? - Reach support
 Latest project updates? - View Changelog
 Dotfiles Insider - Read our blog
 LLMs - llms.txt & llms-full.txt




© 2026 DAYTONA PLATFORMS, INC. / Privacy policy   Terms of Service
