Skip to main content
Documentation
/
Console
Sign in
Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform
Start free
Overview
Studio
Agents
Models
Notebooks
API reference
Pricing
Engineering Blog
Overview
Get an API key
Get started
Build an agent with ADK and Agents CLI
Build
Overview
Create agents
Overview
Set up the environment
Prebuilt agents
Create agents in the console
Managed Agents API on Agent Platform
Overview
Create and manage agents
Interact with agents
Sandbox environment
Evaluate agents
Create agents with frameworks
Skill Registry
Authentication
RAG Engine
Tokenizer
Multimodal datasets
Use Agent Search
Perform vector similarity searches
Agent Retrieval (formerly Vector Search 2.0) - Intelligent Retrieval for AI Applications
Scale
Overview
Agent Runtime
Sessions
Feedback service
Memory Bank
Sandbox
Autonomous agent scheduling
Govern
Overview
Safety (Responsible AI)
Share an agent
Agent Identity
Agent Registry
Topology graphs
Policies
Agent Gateway
Guides
Security
Agent Audit
Optimize
Overview
Observability
Evaluation
Example Store
Troubleshooting
Overview
Agent Platform Runtime environment setup
Create an agent
Agent deployment
Agent Gateway connectivity
IAM access policies
Manage deployed agents
Code Execution
Memory Bank
On this page
Sandbox permissions and security
Execution and lifecycle management
Pre-installed software
Skill mounting architecture
Example sources configuration
Sandbox file system structure after mounting
Sandbox built-in tools
What's next
Home
Documentation
AI and ML
Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform
Agents
Was this helpful?
Send feedback
Managed Agents API on Agent Platform sandbox environment

This product is a Pre-GA offering, subject to the "Pre-GA Offerings Terms" in the General Service Terms section of the Service Specific Terms, the "Agentic AI Services" terms in the Service Specific Terms, and the Additional Terms for Generative AI Preview Products. Pre-GA products and features may have limited support, and changes to pre-GA products and features may not be compatible with other pre-GA versions. For more information, see the launch stage descriptions.

These Pre-GA products are in various stages of internal testing and review. As such, do not use proprietary, sensitive, or other confidential data with these products. These products are available to Customers solely for limited testing and evaluation, and you may not use them for commercial or production purposes.

Managed Agents API on Agent Platform operates with standard, isolated Linux sandboxes. In this secure, fully managed execution container, custom agents can reason, plan workflows, execute bash commands, and read or write files out-of-the-box.

Every sandbox environment provides the following core systems and controls:

Persistent file system: Securely persists files, agent logic, and execution state across multi-turn interactions.

Bash terminal: Provides a secure environment for executing terminal commands, running custom scripts, and processing local files.

Network isolation: Disabled by default. You can explicitly declare a network allowlist to let the agent access public internet resources or download external libraries.

Extensible integrations: Supports importing custom capabilities dynamically, including standard web APIs, Model Context Protocol (MCP) servers, or skills from Skill Registry.

Sandbox permissions and security

To maintain standard enterprise security boundaries, the remote sandbox operates under the following permission models:

Network isolation: By default, the sandbox operates without external network access. Explicitly enable connectivity by setting a domain allowlist in your environment configuration. See Configure network access for allowlist examples.

Least privilege execution: Once network access is enabled, the container lacks privileged administrative credentials or permissions. It can only query publicly accessible internet locations by default.

Data scoping for Cloud Storage and Skill Registry mounts: When you attach external data sources from Google Cloud Storage or Skill Registry, the environment is provided with downscoped authorization tokens designed to access only the specific directories or skills specified in the agent configurations. The sandbox contains no ambient credentials and cannot access other repositories or files in your project.

MCP credentials scoping: Header configurations for Model Context Protocol (MCP) servers, which contain backend authentication tokens, are transmitted only when accessing the specific MCP endpoints defined in your configuration.

Execution and lifecycle management

These standard parameters govern the sandbox execution and lifecycle:

Sandbox environment: Agents run with a fully managed sandbox environment, using the Antigravity harness for orchestration.

Sandbox time to live (TTL): The sandbox environment has a standard time to live (TTL) of 7 days. Each new interaction automatically resets this timer to ensure active agents remain available.

Agent configuration persistence: The backend persistently stores agent configurations, and they remain until you send an explicit DELETE request to the Agents API.

Agent collaboration: Multiple agents share the same environment when you provide the same env_id during interaction.

Pre-installed software

The sandbox contains a standard Linux utility set:

Category	Packages/Tools
UNIX Tools	
bc
curl
fd-find
gawk
gcloud CLI
git
htop
iproute2
jq
lsof
procps
ripgrep
rsync
tree
unzip
wget
which

Python 3.11 Packages	
ast-grep-cli
beautifulsoup4
google-genai
numpy
pandas
pyyaml
requests

Node.js 20 Global Packages	
create-next-app
create-vite
typescript

The agent can install additional packages at runtime using pip install or npm install when network access is enabled. These packages persist in the environment snapshot and remain available for interactions reusing the same env_id.

Skill mounting architecture

When you configure external skills from sources such as the Skill Registry within an agent's base_environment.sources, these resources are attached directly into the sandbox file system. The system places each skill within the specified target directories, preserving the original skill package directory structure. This organization helps ensure that individual skill files remain discoverable by the agent.

Example sources configuration

The following example attaches three skills from the Skill Registry:

"sources": [
  {
    "type": "skill_registry",
    "source": "projects/{projectID}/locations/{location}/skills/pdf-skill",
    "target": "/.agent/skills/"
  },
  {
    "type": "skill_registry",
    "source": "projects/{projectID}/locations/{location}/skills/finance-skill",
    "target": "/.agent/skills/"
  },
  {
    "type": "skill_registry",
    "source": "projects/{projectID}/locations/{location}/skills/git-skill",
    "target": "/.agent/other-skills/"
  }
]

Sandbox file system structure after mounting

After the sandbox environment is provisioned, the files are mounted and structured within the container as follows:

/ (root)
└── .agent/
    ├── skills/                    <-- Mount Target for pdf-skill & finance-skill
    │   ├── pdf-skill/             <-- Preserved skill directory
    │   │   ├── SKILL.md
    │   │   └── scripts/
    │   └── finance-skill/         <-- Preserved skill directory
    │       ├── SKILL.md
    │       └── scripts/
    └── other-skills/              <-- Mount Target for git-skill
        └── git-skill/             <-- Preserved skill directory
            ├── SKILL.md
            └── scripts/

Sandbox built-in tools

When running in the managed environment, the agent has access to several default tools:

Tool name	Description
bash	Executes a shell command in the sandbox terminal and returns the output.
file_system	Reads, writes, and deletes the contents of a file, and lists the contents of a directory.
What's next
Overview
Managed Agents API on Agent Platform overview

Learn about Managed Agents API on Agent Platform, a config-driven, REST-first environment for building autonomous agents.

Guide
Create and manage agents

Learn how to create, update, list, get, and delete agents using the REST API.

Guide
Interact with agents

Learn how to interact with agents at runtime, manage session state, and dynamically override configurations.

Was this helpful?
Send feedback

Except as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License, and code samples are licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. For details, see the Google Developers Site Policies. Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.

Last updated 2026-10-07 UTC.

Products and pricing
See all products
Google Cloud pricing
Google Cloud Marketplace
Contact sales
Support
Community forums
Support
Release Notes
System status
Resources
GitHub
Getting Started with Google Cloud
Code samples
Cloud Architecture Center
Training and Certification
Engage
Blog
Events
X (Twitter)
Google Cloud on YouTube
Google Cloud Tech on YouTube
Android
Chrome
Firebase
Google AI
About Google
Privacy
Site terms
Google Cloud terms
Our third decade of climate action: join us
Sign up for the Google Cloud newsletter
Subscribe