Skip to main content
English
Preferences 
Contact Us
Feedback
Get started
Service guides
Developer tools
AI resources
Search in this guide
Create an AWS Account
Amazon Bedrock
User Guide
Overview
Quickstart
Models at a glance
Model availability & compatibility
Build
Model customization
Security, Guardrails, and Observability
Capacity and Performance
Track usage and costs
Additional capabilities
Optimize and migrate prompts
Data Automation
Knowledge Bases
Evaluate models
Prompt management
Agents: Automate tasks
How Amazon Bedrock Agents work
Amazon Bedrock Agents Classic maintenance mode
Supported Regions
Tutorial: Building a simple agent
Build and modify agents for your application
Use action groups to define actions for your agent
Use multi-agent collaboration for complex tasks
Configure agent to request information from user
Augment response generation for your agent with knowledge base
Retain conversational context using memory
Generate, run, and test code with code interpretation
Implement safeguards for your application
Provision additional throughput
Configure an agent to use computer use tools
Test and troubleshoot agent behavior
Customize agent for your use case
Deploy and use an agent in your application
Prompt engineering concepts
Amazon Bedrock Marketplace
Flows
Session management
Managed agents by OpenAI
Code examples
References/Advanced
AWS Glossary
Document history
Documentation
Amazon Bedrock
User Guide
Documentation
Amazon Bedrock
User Guide
Automate tasks in your application using AI agents
 PDF
 RSS
 Markdown
Agent Setup
Focus mode
Note

Amazon Bedrock Agents (now Amazon Bedrock Agents Classic) is no longer open to new customers. For capabilities similar to Bedrock Agents Classic, explore Amazon Bedrock AgentCore. Existing customers can continue to use the service as normal. For more information, see Amazon Bedrock Agents Classic maintenance mode.

Amazon Bedrock Agents offers you the ability to build and configure autonomous agents in your application. An agent helps your end-users complete actions based on organization data and user input. Agents orchestrate interactions between foundation models (FMs), data sources, software applications, and user conversations. In addition, agents automatically call APIs to take actions and invoke knowledge bases to supplement information for these actions. By integrating agents, you can accelerate your development effort to deliver generative artificial intelligence (generative AI) applications.

With agents, you can automate tasks for your customers and answer questions for them. For example, you can create an agent that helps customers process insurance claims or an agent that helps customers make travel reservations. You don't have to provision capacity, manage infrastructure, or write custom code. Amazon Bedrock manages prompt engineering, memory, monitoring, encryption, user permissions, and API invocation.

Agents perform the following tasks:

Extend foundation models to understand user requests and break down the tasks that the agent must perform into smaller steps.

Collect additional information from a user through natural conversation.

Take actions to fulfill a customer's request by making API calls to your company systems.

Augment performance and accuracy by querying data sources.

To use an agent, you perform the following steps:

(Optional) Create a knowledge base to store your private data in that database. For more information, see Retrieve data and generate AI responses with Amazon Bedrock Knowledge Bases.

Configure an agent for your use case and add at least one of the following components:

At least one action group that the agent can perform. To learn how to define the action group and how it's handled by the agent, see Use action groups to define actions for your agent to perform.

Associate a knowledge base with the agent to augment the agent's performance. For more information, see Augment response generation for your agent with knowledge base.

(Optional) To customize the agent's behavior to your specific use-case, modify prompt templates for the pre-processing, orchestration, knowledge base response generation, and post-processing steps that the agent performs. For more information, see Enhance agent's accuracy using advanced prompt templates in Amazon Bedrock.

Test your agent in the Amazon Bedrock console or through API calls to the TSTALIASID. Modify the configurations as necessary. Use traces to examine your agent's reasoning process at each step of its orchestration. For more information, see Test and troubleshoot agent behavior and Track agent's step-by-step reasoning process using trace.

When you have sufficiently modified your agent and it's ready to be deployed to your application, create an alias to point to a version of your agent. For more information, see Deploy and use an Amazon Bedrock agent in your application.

Set up your application to make API calls to your agent alias.

Iterate on your agent and create more versions and aliases as necessary.

Related resources
Amazon Bedrock API Reference
AWS CLI commands for Amazon Bedrock
SDKs & Tools 
Did this page help you?
Yes
No
Provide feedback
Next topic:How Amazon Bedrock Agents work
Previous topic:Run code samples
Get Started
AWS Hands-On Tutorials 
AWS Solutions Library 
AWS Decision Guides
Service Guides
Choosing a generative AI service
AWS service guides
AWS CLI Tutorials on GitHub 
Developer Tools
AWS Code Example Library
AWS CLI
AWS Builder Center 
AWS Developer Tools Blog 
Helpful Links
Download the AWS Docs MCP Server 
Sign into the AWS Console 
AWS re:Post 
PrivacySite termsCookie preferences © 2026, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
English
Top