Agent Gateway overview
Agent Gateway is the key enforcement component of Agent Platform. It acts as the network
entry and exit point for all agentic interactions. It gives enterprise security administrators
the ability to secure connectivity for all agentic interactions, whether they occur between
users and agents, agents and tools, or among agents themselves.




                (/static/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/images/geap-architecture.png)
                Agent Gateway and Agent Platform ecosystem (click to enlarge).




Core governance components
The following Agent Platform components work together to provide a unified governance
architecture:

     Agent Identity (/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/govern/agent-identity-overview) (Who made
     the request?): Assigns a unique, secure ID (a SPIFFE ID) to each agent. This identity
     acts as the agent's digital signature for authentication, access control, and auditing.

     Agent identities are secured by default with Context-Aware Access which enforces
     end-to-end cryptographic authentication by using mTLS
      (/access-context-manager/docs/caa-agent-security#mtls) and DPoP
      (/access-context-manager/docs/caa-agent-security#dpop).

     Agent Registry (/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/govern/agent-registry) (What destinations
     are approved?): Acts as the central directory for all approved agents, tools, Model
     Context Protocol (MCP) servers, and endpoints (such as essential Google Cloud APIs)
     in your organization. Agent Gateway uses this directory to check permissions before
     allowing connections.
Policies (/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/govern/policies/overview-uap) (What actions are
permitted?): Lets you implement rich sets of agentic security and governance policies
that control which agents can reach specific resources and what content is allowed to
pass through:

      IAM Unified Access Policies
      (/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/govern/policies/iam-overview-uap): Access rules
      that link an agent's identity to approved tools and endpoints in Agent Registry.
      By default, all connections are blocked unless an explicit IAM policy grants
      access.

      Model Armor (/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/govern/configure-model-armor):
      Content security filters attached to gateways. Model Armor scans user prompts
      and tool responses in real time to block prompt injection attacks, sensitive data
      leaks, and harmful content.

      Semantic Governance Policies
      (/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/govern/policies/semantic-governance-overview):
      Rules written in plain language that control how agents use tools. They enforce
      business rules at runtime to prevent agents from taking unintended actions,
      such as running unsafe combinations of tools.

      Custom authorization engines
      (/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/govern/gateways/delegate-authorization): Custom
      authorization extensions that let you delegate authorization decisions to third-
      party systems by using Service Extensions.

Internally, all of these policy types are enforced by using authorization policies
managed through Service Extensions
(/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/govern/gateways/delegate-authorization).

Agent Gateway (/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/govern/gateways/agent-gateway-overview)
(Where are policies enforced?): Serves as the main entry and exit point for network
traffic between clients-to-agents, and agents-to-anywhere. It manages encrypted
connections (mTLS), translates protocols (such as MCP, REST, and gRPC), and applies
policy checks to all traffic. To learn more, see How Agent Gateway enforces policies
(/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/govern/gateways/agent-gateway-overview#how-policies-are-
enforced)
.

Agent Observability (/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/optimize/observability/overview):
Agent Gateway generates observability telemetry for all agent interactions at the
network layer and exports it to Agent Observability to provide you with a
comprehensive understanding of agent actions.
Key benefits
Agent Gateway offers several benefits for both AI developers and enterprise administrators,
addressing the complexities of securing and managing AI agent interactions at scale.

For AI developers:

     Simplified innovation: Developers can focus on building agents without managing
     complex networking primitives or security overhead.

     Protocol mediation: Developers can seamlessly use their choice of agentic protocols
     such Model Context Protocol (MCP), Agent-to-Agent(A2A), REST, and gRPC while
     adhering to enterprise security standards.

     Framework agnostic: Functionality is available regardless of the development
     framework or client used.

     Secure transport and authentication: Automatically handles mTLS handshakes and
     termination to ensure encrypted connectivity between agents and tools without
     developer effort. Integrates with Agent Platform's Agent Identity Auth Manager
      (/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/govern/agent-identity-overview) to simplify and secure
     Oauth 2.0 handshakes between their agents and tools.

For enterprise admins and security teams:

     Centralized governance for all agent interactions: Configure and enforce consistent
     access policies across diverse agent runtimes and deployment models, ensuring
     enforcement of least-privilege permissions for agents at runtime.

     AI security guardrails: Protect against novel risks like Model Context Protocol (MCP)
     prompt injection attacks using integrated services like Model Armor.

     Comprehensive observability: Gain deep visibility into agentic interactions through
     Cloud Logging and Cloud Trace, facilitating security investigations and performance
     monitoring.

     Perimeter security and data exfiltration protection: Enforce VPC Service Controls
     service perimeters for agent communications. When you configure Agent Gateway
     with an agent connectivity template
      (/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/govern/gateways/set-up-vpc-connectivity), agent traffic is
     routed through your private VPC network attachment, ensuring that your
     organization's VPC Service Controls perimeter rules are applied to all agent traffic as
     well.
Deployment modes
Agent Gateway is a networking abstraction that lets you define rules for agent
communication and enforces safety, security, and access control policies, without requiring
you to manage complex networking details.

Agent Gateway facilitates two primary governed access paths: Client-to-Agent interactions
and Agent-to-Anywhere interactions.




             (/static/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/images/agent-gateway-modes.png)
                        Agent Gateway modes of operation (click to enlarge).

      Client-to-Agent (ingress) : This mode is used to secure communications between
      clients (such as Cursor, Claude Code, Gemini CLI) and agents (and tools) running on
      Google Cloud. In this mode, Agent Gateway acts as a frontend for your agent and lets
      you control which clients can access your agents (and tools) and which security
      policies must be applied to such interactions.

      Agent-to-Anywhere (egress): This mode is used to secure communications between
      agents running on Google Cloud and servers, agents, tools, or APIs running anywhere.
      For example, Agent Gateway can be used to enforce access permissions and security
      guardrails for your agents that need to communicate with MCP servers that are either
      created and hosted by your own organization, or remote MCP servers hosted by third-
      parties.

The applicability of each governance component and policy layer varies depending on the
direction of traffic:


Governance layer          Client-to-Agent (ingress) Agent-to-Anywhere (egress)


Identity                  Client identity or user   Workload-bound agent identity (SPIFFE ID) assigned
                          credentials passed by     to the agent.
                          the client to the Agent
                          Gateway.
Governance layer         Client-to-Agent (ingress) Agent-to-Anywhere (egress)


Agent Registry           Not available for ingress. Registers outbound target destination resources
                                                  such as tools, MCP servers, and other agents.

IAM Unified Access       Not available for ingress. Enforced at runtime by IAP based on the agent's
Policies and Principal                            SPIFFE ID and the destination resource that the
Access Boundary (PAB)                             agent is calling. Principal Access Boundary policies
                                                  applied to the agent identity are evaluated as part of
                                                  the egress call. Agent identities that are subject to
                                                  Principal Access Boundary policies are only eligible
                                                  to access the resources specified in those policies,
                                                  strictly isolating the agent to its designated
                                                  boundary.

Model Armor (Optional)   Inspects client prompts Inspects outgoing tool payloads and agent
                         for inbound prompt       responses for data leakage and prompt injection.
                         injection attacks and
                         harmful content.

Semantic Governance      Evaluates natural        Evaluates natural language constraints against
policies (Optional)      language constraints     outbound tool calls and agent actions.
                         against inbound client
                         requests (cannot be
                         combined with Model
                         Armor on the same
                         ingress gateway).




How Agent Gateway enforces policies
Traffic passing through Agent Gateway undergoes specific policy evaluations depending on
the direction of traffic. The following sections outline the sequence of events for ingress
and egress requests.
        (/static/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/images/agent-gateway-access-control.png)
                      Access control with Agent Gateway (click to enlarge).



Client-to-Agent enforcement
In Client-to-Agent mode (supported only for agents deployed in Agent Runtime), a request to
an agent governed by Agent Gateway undergoes the following sequence of events:

   1. Client request: A client (such as a CLI, web application, or developer tool) sends a
     request to the agent. The request is intercepted by an Agent Gateway operating in
     Client-to-Agent mode which acts as the agent's frontend.

   2. Request inspection: Agent Gateway evaluates the request using the authorization
     policy attached to the gateway.

             Model Armor: Scans the inbound user prompt in real time to block prompt
             injection attacks, jailbreaks, and harmful content.

             Semantic Governance policy (if configured instead of Model Armor): Evaluates
             natural language constraints against the inbound request.

   3. Request forwarding: If all checks pass, Agent Gateway forwards the request to the
     target destination in Agent Runtime.



Agent-to-Anywhere enforcement
When an agent running in Agent Runtime or Gemini Enterprise sends an outbound call to an
external tool, MCP server, or another agent, the request undergoes the following sequence
of events:

   1. Outbound request and interception: The agent (identified by its assigned agent
     identity) sends an outbound call. The request is intercepted by Agent Gateway
     operating in Agent-to-Anywhere mode.
   2. IAM, Principal Access Boundary, and IAP policy verification: IAP verifies that there is
     an IAM access policy that grants the agent identity the
     iap.resources.egressViaIAP permission to access the destination. Any Principal
     Access Boundary policies applied to the agent identity are also evaluated as part of
     the egress call. Agent identities that are subject to Principal Access Boundary policies
     are only eligible to access the resources specified in those policies, strictly isolating
     the agent to its designated access boundary.

   3. Agent Registry verification: Agent Gateway verifies that the target destination
     resource is registered in Agent Registry (or resolves the target endpoint URL if the
     destination is unregistered). Registering destinations in Agent Registry is
     recommended to enforce granular, per-resource access policies and tool-level
     controls. If the destination is not registered in Agent Registry, then there must be an
     explicit IAM access policy targeting the destination URL. By default, if no matching
     access policy exists, the request is denied.

   4. Request inspection: If the previous checks pass, Agent Gateway evaluates the request
     against any of these other safety guardrails you might have configured:

             Model Armor: Inspects tool payloads and agent responses for prompt injection
             and sensitive data leakage.

             Semantic Governance policies: Evaluate natural language constraints (NLC)
             against tool invocations and agent actions.

             Delegate authorization to a custom authorization engine: You can delegate
             authorization decisions to a custom authorization engine by using Service
             Extensions. Depending on the configured authorization policy, one or more of
             these authorization engines may allow or deny the request.

   5. Request forwarding: If all checks pass, Agent Gateway forwards the request to the
     target destination.




Supported agent runtimes
Agent Gateway lets you govern traffic for agents and tools running on the following runtime
platforms:

     Agent Runtime (/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/build/runtime): Agent Gateway supports
     both Agent-to-Anywhere (egress) and Client-to-Agent (ingress) modes.

     Gemini Enterprise (/gemini/enterprise/docs/agents-overview): Agent Gateway supports
     only Agent-to-Anywhere (egress) mode.
For details on planning a deployment with these runtimes, see Plan your Agent Gateway
deployment (/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/govern/gateways/set-up-agent-gateway#plan-agw).




Supported protocols
Agent Gateway supports all HTTP-based traffic, including MCP and A2A traffic. At a
minimum, the gateway acts as a passthrough that securely terminates and routes incoming
traffic.

For MCP traffic only, Agent Gateway can parse request data to extract attributes. This lets
you create authorization policies with conditions based on those attributes. For example,
you can create policies that restrict access to specific tools. For details, see Authorization
based on MCP attributes
(/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/govern/gateways/delegate-authorization#mcp-attributes).




Limitations
       For Gemini Enterprise, Client-to-Agent mode is not supported by Agent Gateway.

       Each Agent Gateway instance can govern up to 5,000 resources registered in Agent
       Registry.

       Review the limitations
       (/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/scale/runtime/agent-gateway-runtime-deploy#limitations)
       associated with Agent Runtime.

       Review the limitations
       (/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/govern/gateways/delegate-authorization#limitations)
       associated with authorization policies.

       When using trustConfigs to route traffic to destinations that use private CAs
       (/gemini-enterprise-agent-platform/govern/gateways/set-up-vpc-connectivity), you must rotate
       the PEM files manually. Automated rotation of PEM files using secret managers, such
       as Google Cloud's Secret Manager, is not supported.




API and gcloud reference
For details about the methods available for Agent Gateway, see the following reference
topics:
      gcloud reference: gcloud network-services agent-gateways
       (https://docs.cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/network-services/agent-gateways)

      REST API reference: agentGateways
       (/service-mesh/docs/reference/network-services/rest/v1/projects.locations.agentGateways)




What's next

    Codelab                                Overview                              Guide

  Codelab: Govern                        Agent Gateway                          Set up an Agent
  agentic workloads                      partners                               Gateway
  with Agent                              (/gemini-enterprise-agent-            (/gemini-enterprise-agent-
                                         platform/govern/gateways               platform/govern/gateways
  Platform                               /agw-partners)                         /set-up-agent-gateway)
   (https://codelabs.develop
  ers.google.com/cloudnet-               Explore the ecosystem of               Learn how to set up an
  agent-gateway)
                                         identity and AI security               Agent Gateway.
                                         providers integrating with
  Learn how to govern
                                         Agent Gateway.
  agentic workloads with
  Agent Gateway on Gemini
  Enterprise Agent Platform.




    Troubleshooting

  Troubleshoot
  Agent Gateway
   (/gemini-enterprise-agent-
  platform/troubleshooting/
  troubleshoot-agent-
  gateway)


  Learn how to troubleshoot
  Agent Gateway
  connectivity.



Except as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
License (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/), and code samples are licensed under the Apache
2.0 License (https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0). For details, see the Google Developers Site
Policies (https://developers.google.com/site-policies). Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its
affiliates.


Last updated 2026-10-07 UTC.
