Firecracker: Lightweight Virtualization
for Serverless Applications
Alexandru Agache, Marc Brooker, Andreea Florescu, Alexandra Iordache, Anthony Liguori, Rolf
Neugebauer, Phil Piwonka, and Diana-Maria Popa, Amazon Web Services

Serverless containers and functions are widely used for deploying and managing software in the cloud.
Their popularity is due to reduced cost of operations, improved utilization of hardware, and faster
scaling than traditional deployment methods. The economics and scale of serverless applications
demand that workloads from multiple customers run on the same hardware with minimal overhead,
while preserving strong security and performance isolation. The traditional view is that there is a
choice between virtualization with strong security and high overhead, and container technologies with
weaker security and minimal overhead. This tradeoff is unacceptable to public infrastructure providers,
who need both strong security and minimal overhead. To meet this need, we developed Firecracker, a
new open source Virtual Machine Monitor (VMM) specialized for serverless workloads, but generally
useful for containers, functions and other compute workloads within a reasonable set of constraints.
We have deployed Firecracker in two publically-available serverless compute services at AWS (Lambda
and Fargate), where it supports millions of production workloads, and trillions of requests per month.
We describe how specializing for serverless informed the design of Firecracker, and what we learned
from seamlessly migrating AWS Lambda customers to Firecracker.




                  NSDI '20 Open Access Sponsored by NetApp



Open Access Media
USENIX is committed to Open Access to the research presented at our events. Papers and proceedings
are freely available to everyone once the event begins. Any video, audio, and/or slides that are posted
after the event are also free and open to everyone. Support USENIX and our commitment to Open
Access.


BibTeX


    Agache PDF              View the slides
Presentation Video




AT T E N D                  PROGRAM                                PA R T I C I PAT E
Registration Information    Program at a Glance                    Call for Papers
Registration Discounts      Technical Sessions                     Call for Posters
Venue, Hotel, and Travel    Activities                             Instructions for Presenters
                            Poster Session and Reception
                            Birds-of-a-Feather Sessions (BoFs)

SPONSORSHIP                                      ABOUT
Exhibitor Services                               Symposium Organizers
                                                 Past Symposia
                                                 Code of Conduct
                                                 Questions




   
Privacy Policy Contact Us
© USENIX 2026
EIN 13-3055038
