Skip to main content
Documentation
/
Console
Sign in
Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform
Start free
Overview
Studio
Agents
Models
Notebooks
API reference
Pricing
Engineering Blog
Overview
Get an API key
Get started
Build an agent with ADK and Agents CLI
Build
Overview
Create agents
Skill Registry
Authentication
RAG Engine
Tokenizer
Multimodal datasets
Use Agent Search
Perform vector similarity searches
Agent Retrieval (formerly Vector Search 2.0) - Intelligent Retrieval for AI Applications
Scale
Overview
Agent Runtime
Sessions
Feedback service
Memory Bank
Sandbox
Autonomous agent scheduling
Govern
Overview
Safety (Responsible AI)
Share an agent
Agent Identity
Agent Registry
Topology graphs
Policies
Agent Gateway
Guides
Security
Agent Audit
Optimize
Overview
Observability
Evaluation
Agent evaluation
Evaluate your agents
Run Offline Evaluations
Simulate agent behavior
Continuous evaluation with Online Monitors
Manage evaluation metrics
Analyze evaluation results and failure clusters
Configure quality alerts
Optimize agent prompts
Example Store
Troubleshooting
Overview
Agent Platform Runtime environment setup
Create an agent
Agent deployment
Agent Gateway connectivity
IAM access policies
Manage deployed agents
Code Execution
Memory Bank
On this page
Procedure summary
Evaluation process
Evaluation workflow
Core capabilities
Evaluate with AI coding assistants
Agents CLI eval skill
Agent Platform GenAI Evaluation Service flywheel skill
What's next
Home
Documentation
AI and ML
Gemini Enterprise Agent Platform
Agents
Was this helpful?
Send feedback
Agent evaluation

To see an example of End-to-end agent evaluation, run the "Multi-Turn Agent Evaluation with User Simulation, Metric Registration, and Auto Loss Analysis" notebook in one of the following environments:

Open in Colab | Open in Colab Enterprise | Open in Agent Platform Workbench | View on GitHub

This document describes how to use agent evaluation to measure and improve the performance, safety, and quality of your agents.

To learn more about model evaluation, see Gen AI evaluation service overview.

Procedure summary
Phase	Activity	Goal
Design	Define eval cases	Specify agent tasks and expected outcomes.
Execution	Run inferences	Generate real-world or simulated conversation traces.
Scoring	Compute metrics	Grade traces using automated raters (Task Success, Safety).
Refinement	Optimize agent	Propose and verify improvements to instructions or tools.
Evaluation process

Evaluation follows a structured, iterative workflow:

Define eval cases: An eval case is a specification that defines an agent's task. An eval case can include one or multiple conversation steps, the conversation context (the agent's state), and a specification for simulating user responses during inference.
Run inferences: Inference is the execution of an eval case. If an eval case contains a conversation plan, user responses are simulated during inference.
Generate traces: Each inference run captures the agent's behavior in a trace. A trace is a factual, immutable record of the agent's behavior, including model inputs, responses, and tool calls.
Compute metrics: Metrics are scores computed for each trace using prebuilt or custom raters. Some metrics, like Exact Match, are reference-based and require an eval case with a reference answer. Others, like Helpfulness, are reference-free and evaluate the trace on its own. This automated evaluation lets you score traces captured from production traffic or external logs, independent of a managed test environment.
Conduct analysis: Analyze metrics, rubrics, and verdicts to identify key agent issues, link the agent issues back to test cases, and generate insights for improvement.
Optimize the agent: Use optimization to manage the entire evaluation cycle. This automated process analyzes results, proposes improvements to the agent, and iteratively reruns the process to verify performance gains.
Evaluation workflow

You can integrate evaluation into two main stages of your workflow:

Local development iteration: Evaluate an Agent Development Kit (ADK)-based agent locally to rapidly iterate on prompt engineering and tool configurations.
Deployed agent assessment: Measure the quality of deployed agents by analyzing historical traces or running synthetic benchmarks against agent endpoints.
Core capabilities

Agent evaluation helps you build an initial evaluation suite, even without existing test data. The following features help automate the process of generating test cases and refining your agentic systems:

Scenario generation and user simulation: Automatically generate diverse, multi-turn synthetic test scenarios based on your agent's instructions and tool definitions. This automation allows you to start testing immediately by eliminating the need to manually author initial test cases.

Environment simulation: Intercept specific tool calls to inject custom behaviors, mocked data, or simulated errors (such as HTTP 503 errors or latency spikes). This simulation lets you validate agent resilience without impacting production backends.

Multi-turn evaluation: Automatically evaluate entire conversation histories using multi-turn autoraters. These raters analyze intent extraction, dynamically generate rubrics, and provide objective validation verdicts to help ensure instruction adherence.

Prompt optimization: Programmatically generate and validate refined system instructions by using prompt optimization. The optimization framework identifies points of failure and iteratively proposes targeted updates.

Evaluate with AI coding assistants

If you use Gemini CLI or another AI coding assistant, you can install Agent skills that teach your assistant the agent evaluation methodology described on this page. Each skill provides the eval workflow, dataset schema, metric selection guidance, and failure analysis steps directly in your coding session, so your assistant can build, grade, and improve evaluations without leaving your editor.

Installation instructions follow each skill.

Agents CLI eval skill

A CLI-driven workflow to evaluate and optimize Agent Development Kit (ADK) agents using the agents-cli eval commands. This skill covers:

Preparing eval datasets and synthesizing multi-turn scenarios with user simulation
Running inference, grading traces, and analyzing failure clusters
Iterating on prompts and tools with the eval-fix loop

To install, run the following command:

npx skills add https://github.com/google/agents-cli --skill google-agents-cli-eval

Agent Platform GenAI Evaluation Service flywheel skill

An SDK-driven playbook to evaluate and improve models and agents through the Agent Platform GenAI Evaluation Service, using the Agent Platform GenAI Evaluation SDK (client.evals.evaluate()). This skill covers:

Building eval datasets from session traces, DataFrames, or synthetic generation
Selecting, configuring, and writing custom metrics with LLM-as-judge scoring
Analyzing rubric verdicts and loss patterns to drive concrete improvements

To install, run the following command:

npx skills add https://github.com/google/skills --skill agent-platform-eval-flywheel

What's next
Simulate agent behavior
Run evaluation
Manage evaluation metrics
View evaluation results
Was this helpful?
Send feedback

Except as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License, and code samples are licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. For details, see the Google Developers Site Policies. Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.

Last updated 2026-10-07 UTC.

Products and pricing
See all products
Google Cloud pricing
Google Cloud Marketplace
Contact sales
Support
Community forums
Support
Release Notes
System status
Resources
GitHub
Getting Started with Google Cloud
Code samples
Cloud Architecture Center
Training and Certification
Engage
Blog
Events
X (Twitter)
Google Cloud on YouTube
Google Cloud Tech on YouTube
Android
Chrome
Firebase
Google AI
About Google
Privacy
Site terms
Google Cloud terms
Our third decade of climate action: join us
Sign up for the Google Cloud newsletter
Subscribe