       Getting Started      Credits & Pricing




Getting Started


Credits & Pricing                                                                                         Copy page


Learn how to get and manage your Tavily API Credits.


Free API Credits

           Get your free API key
           You get 1,000 free API Credits every month. No credit card required.




Pricing Overview
Tavily operates on a simple, credit-based model:

       Free: 1,000 credits/month

       Pay-as-you-go: $0.008 per credit (allows you to be charged per credit once your plan’s credit
       limit is reached).

       Monthly plans: $0.0075 - $0.005 per credit

       Enterprise: Custom pricing and volume


Plan                            Credits per month               Monthly price                  Price per credit

Researcher                      1,000                           Free                           -

Project                         4,000                           $30                            $0.0075

      This website uses cookies and other tracking technologies to enhance user experience and to analyze
Bootstrap                     15,000                         $100                          $0.0067
       performance and traffic on our website. We also share information about your use of our site with our social
Startupmedia, advertising and analytics
                                38,000partners. If we have detected
                                                               $220an opt-out preference signal    then it will be
                                                                                              $0.0058
        honored. Further information is available in our Cookie Notice
Growth                          100,000                         $500                           $0.005
                                           Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Pay as you go                   Per usage                       $0.008 / Credit                $0.008

Enterprise                      Custom                          Custom
                                                              Reject All                       Custom



                                                          Accept Cookies
Head to billing to explore our different options and manage your plan.
API Credits Costs

Tavily Search

Your search depth determines the cost of your request.


    Basic Search ( basic ): Each request costs 1 API credit.

    Advanced Search ( advanced ): Each request costs 2 API credits.


Tavily Extract

The number of successful URL extractions and your extraction depth determines the cost of your
request. You never get charged if a URL extraction fails.


    Basic Extract ( basic ): Every 5 successful URL extractions cost 1 API credit

    Advanced Extract ( advanced ): Every 5 successful URL extractions cost 2 API credits


Tavily Map

The number of pages mapped and whether or not natural-language instructions are specified
determines the cost of your request. You never get charged if a map request fails.


    Regular Mapping: Every 10 successful pages returned cost 1 API credit

    Map with ( instructions ): Every 10 successful pages returned cost 2 API credits


Tavily Crawl

Tavily Crawl combines both mapping and extraction operations, so the cost is the sum of both:


    Crawl Cost = Mapping Cost + Extraction Cost

For example:

       This website uses cookies and other tracking technologies to enhance user experience and to analyze
    If you  crawl 10 pages with basic extraction depth, you’ll be charged 1 credit for mapping (10
      performance and traffic on our website. We also share information about your use of our site with our social
     media,+
    pages)   2 credits
           advertising   foranalytics
                       and   extraction    (10 Ifsuccessful
                                      partners.               extractions
                                                  we have detected an opt-out 5) = 3 total
                                                                           ÷ preference    credits
                                                                                        signal then it will be
      honored. Further information is available in our Cookie Notice
    If you crawl 10 pages with advanced extraction depth, you’ll be charged 1 credit for mapping + 4
    credits for extraction = 5 total credits


Tavily Research

Tavily Research follows a dynamic pricing model with minimum and maximum credit consumption
boundaries associated with each request. The minimum and maximum boundaries differ based on if
the request uses model=mini or model=pro .


Request Cost Boundaries                         model=pro                             model=mini

Per-request minimum                             15 credits                            4 credits

Per-request maximum                             250 credits                           110 credits




  Quickstart
    Previous



                                                                                                            Rate Limits
                                                                                                                     Next


   Ask a question...




                             Resources                            Legal

                             About                                Security & Complian…

                             Tavily Search Crawler                Privacy Policy

                             Tavily Status                        Website Terms of Use

                                                                  Platform Terms of U…

                                                                  Cookie Notice

                                                                  Accessibility Menu

                                                                  Do Not Sell or Share…
      This website uses cookies and other tracking technologies to enhance user experience and to analyze
      performance and traffic on our website. We also share information about your use of our site with our social
      media, advertising and analytics partners. If we have detected an opt-out preference signal then it will be
      honored. Further information is available in our Cookie Notice

   Assistant

     Responses are generated using AI and may
                contain mistakes.
Ask aThis website uses cookies and other tracking technologies to enhance user experience and to analyze
      question...
     performance and traffic on our website. We also share information about your use of our site with our social
     media, advertising and analytics partners. If we have detected an opt-out preference signal then it will be
     honored. Further information is available in our Cookie Notice
