Murakkab: Resource-Efficient Agentic
Workflow Orchestration in Cloud
Platforms
Gohar Irfan Chaudhry, MIT CSAIL; Esha Choukse, Haoran Qiu, Íñigo Goiri, and Rodrigo Fonseca,
Microsoft Azure Research; Adam Belay, MIT CSAIL; Ricardo Bianchini, Microsoft Azure

Agentic workflows commonly coordinate multiple models and tools with complex control logic. They
are quickly becoming the dominant paradigm for AI applications. However, serving them remains
inefficient with today’s frameworks. The key problem is that they expose workflows as opaque
sequences of model and tool calls that tightly couple agent logic with model and hardware choices.
This prevents systems from holistically reasoning about trade-offs across accuracy, latency, energy, and
cost. This leads to resource waste and degraded service-level objectives (SLOs).

We present Murakkab, a resource-efficient serving system for agentic workflows. Murakkab introduces
a declarative abstraction that decouples workflow specification from execution configuration. A profile-
guided optimizer and adaptive runtime jointly manage the full stack: orchestrating workflow
components, mapping them to models and hardware, and dynamically reconfiguring execution to
satisfy user-defined SLOs. By exposing the internal structure of agentic workflows, Murakkab enables
cross-layer optimization that existing frameworks and cloud schedulers cannot achieve.

Our evaluation on diverse workflows shows that, compared to state-of-the-art systems, Murakkab
reduces GPU usage by up to 2.8×, energy consumption by 3.7×, and cost by 4.3× while maintaining
SLOs.




                 OSDI '26 Open Access Sponsored by
     King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST)



Open Access Media
USENIX is committed to Open Access to the research presented at our events. Papers and proceedings
are freely available to everyone once the event begins. Any video, audio, and/or slides that are posted
after the event are also free and open to everyone. Support USENIX and our commitment to Open
Access.


BibTeX
    Chaudhry PDF              View the slides


Presentation Video




AT T E N D                  SCHEDULE             PA R T I C I PAT E            SPONSORS
Registration Information    Technical Sessions   Call for Papers               Exhibitor Resources
Registration Discounts      Activities           Requirements for Authors
Grant Opportunities         Poster Session       Call for Artifacts
Venue, Hotel, and Travel                         Call for Posters
                                                 Instructions for Presenters
                                                 Mentorship

ABOUT
Symposium Organizers
Past Symposia
Conference Policies
Code of Conduct
Questions




Privacy Policy Contact Us
© USENIX 2026
EIN 13-3055038
