                                         TrEnv-X: Transparently Share Serverless Execution
                                         Environments Across Different Functions and Nodes
                                         JIALIANG HUANG, Tsinghua University and Alibaba Group, China
                                         TENG MA, Alibaba Group, China
                                         ZHENG LIU, Alibaba Group and Zhejiang University, China
                                         SIXING LIN, KANG CHEN, JINLEI JIANG, XIA LIAO, YINGDI SHAN, and YONGWEI
                                         WU, Tsinghua University, China
arXiv:2509.09525v2 [cs.DC] 21 Mar 2026




                                         NING ZHANG, MENGTING LU, and TAO MA, Alibaba Group, China
                                         HAIFENG GONG, Intel, China
                                         MINGXING ZHANG, Tsinghua University, China
                                         Serverless computing is renowned for its computation elasticity, yet its full potential is often constrained by
                                         the requirement for functions to operate within local and dedicated background environments, resulting in
                                         limited memory elasticity. To address this limitation, this paper introduces TrEnv-X, a co-designed integration
                                         of the serverless platform with the operating system and CXL/RDMA-based remote memory pools. TrEnv-X’s
                                         core innovations are repurposable sandboxes, which can be shared across different functions to decrease the
                                         associated creation overhead, and OS-level memory templates, which enable rapid state restoration from
                                         CXL/RDMA-based remote memory pools. To further demonstrate TrEnv-X’s versatility, we generalize its
                                         design from traditional containers for microVM-based agent workloads and introduce new optimizations,
                                         including browser sharing and a page cache bypassing mechanism. Our evaluation shows that TrEnv-X
                                         achieves up to 7× reduction in P99 latency and 48% memory savings for container-based functions. When
                                         applied to LLM agents, it reduces the P99 latency by up to 58% and memory usage by 61% compared to
                                         state-of-the-art systems like E2B.
                                         CCS Concepts: • Computer systems organization → Cloud computing; • Software and its engineering
                                         → Memory management.
                                         Additional Key Words and Phrases: Serverless, Agent, CXL, Cold Start
                                         ACM Reference Format:
                                         Jialiang Huang, Teng Ma, Zheng Liu, Sixing Lin, Kang Chen, Jinlei Jiang, Xia Liao, Yingdi Shan, Yongwei
                                         Wu, Ning Zhang, Mengting Lu, Tao Ma, Haifeng Gong, and Mingxing Zhang. 2026. TrEnv-X: Transparently
                                         ∗ This paper is a substantial extension of our previous work accepted at SOSP 2024 under the same title. In this journal version,

                                         we focus on LLM agents as an emerging serverless workload and provide a comprehensive workload characterization and
                                         cost analysis. We introduce new techniques such as browser sharing, extend TrEnv-X to support VM-based deployments,
                                         and redesign memory sharing mechanisms using virtio-pmem. We also modify the Cloud Hypervisor restore path to support
                                         our design. Finally, we significantly expand the evaluation, demonstrating TrEnv-X’s advantages over state-of-the-art
                                         systems like E2B.

                                         Authors’ Contact Information: Jialiang Huang, huangjl22@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn, Tsinghua University and Alibaba Group,
                                         Beijing, China; Teng Ma, Alibaba Group, Beijing, China, sima.mt@alibaba-inc.com; Zheng Liu, Alibaba Group and Zhejiang
                                         University, Beijing, China; Sixing Lin; Kang Chen; Jinlei Jiang; Xia Liao; Yingdi Shan; Yongwei Wu, Tsinghua University,
                                         Beijing, China; Ning Zhang; Mengting Lu; Tao Ma, Alibaba Group, Beijing, China; Haifeng Gong, Intel, Beijing, China;
                                         Mingxing Zhang, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, zhang_mingxing@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn.

                                         Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee
                                         provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the
                                         full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored.
                                         Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires
                                         prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
                                         © 2026 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
                                         ACM XXXX-XXXX/2026/3-ART
                                         https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX


                                                                                                                 , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
2                                                                                             Jialiang et al.


Share Serverless Execution Environments Across Different Functions and Nodes. 1, 1 (March 2026), 39 pages.
https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX

1     Introduction
Serverless computing, renowned for its fine-grained resource allocation and billing, enables appli-
cations to scale efficiently while optimizing resource utilization. Given its transformative potential,
serverless computing is now available across all major cloud service providers [15, 19, 48] and is
applied across a broad range of sectors[20, 21, 30, 57, 77] , such as the emerging large language
model (LLM) agents [8, 31] workloads.
   However, despite the utopian vision of serverless computing, its real-world implementations
face many practical limitations. Although serverless models suggest that functions could be trans-
parently scheduled across data centers to maximize resource utilization, this idealized elasticity is
often compromised by the functions’ need for efficient access to local and dedicated background
environments. This contradiction between computational elasticity and environment local-
ization poses challenges to the full realization of serverless’s potential, and becomes especially
critical for complex applications like LLM agents that require high-density deployment and resource
overcommitment.
   Precisely, the execution of a serverless function typically unfolds in three phases. (1) The sandbox
creation phase establishes an isolated sandbox (e.g., a container); (2) The bootstrapping phase
initializes the function, which may involve steps like launching Python/Java virtual machines; and
finally, (3) The execution phase executes instance-specific logic according to the inputs of this
invocation. The first two phases are essential for setting up an execution environment for each
function invocation. However, they do not directly contribute to processing user inputs, thus their
overheads (in both CPU time and memory consumption) should be minimized.
   Unfortunately, studies show that the time required to create such dedicated environments can
significantly exceed the actual execution time of a function, leading to the notorious “cold start”
problem in serverless computing [40, 85]. This issue has prompted the development of various
caching techniques aimed at keeping functions warm and ready for immediate reuse [2, 14, 25, 74].
However, these mechanisms necessitate the reservation of local resources, particularly memory,
introducing a trade-off between initialization speed and resource costs, thereby diminishing the
system’s overall elasticity. For instance, commercial solutions like AWS Lambda’s Provisioned
Concurrency [25], which provide caching, deviate from the ideal pay-as-you-go model of cloud
computing by charging for these reserved resources.
   The requirement for execution environments also gives rise to other issues, such as “memory
stranding” [62] and “state duplication” [81]. Memory stranding occurs when a server’s computa-
tional resources are fully engaged, but its memory remains underutilized. State duplication arises
when concurrent serverless functions require but cannot efficiently share identical states due
to existing isolation mechanisms. This is exacerbated when multiple instances utilize common
toolkits or language runtimes, such as in the LLM agent workloads. Furthermore, the duplication is
amplified in virtual machine (VM) environments where guest OS images and files are redundantly
loaded. Recent studies have indicated that these challenges lead to significant inefficiencies, with
up to 50% of memory resources being underutilized in the cloud [44, 56] and an 80% occurrence
of state duplication [81]. These issues collectively pose significant obstacles to achieving genuine
elasticity in serverless computing.

1.1    Our Contribution
In this paper, we present TrEnv-X, a serverless computing platform crafted to minimize CPU time
and memory costs associated with serverless execution environments. The main idea is to share

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
TrEnv-X : Transparently Share Serverless Execution Environments Across Different Functions and Nodes                      3


            Table 1. The core components in current containers. The evaluation setup is detailed in §9.1.

           Unit       Description                                      Overhead         TrEnv-X’s Solution
                      Isolated network environment, such as                             Direct reuse as it does not
           Network    independent ports, including a network         80 ms ∼ 10 s       leak any data produced
                      namespace and a virtual ethernet device.                          during processing (§8.1.1).
                      Root filesystem for containers, including a
           Rootfs     mount namespace and necessary                   10 ∼ 800 ms
 Sandbox




                                                                                        Reuse with reconfigurations,
                      filesystems such as sysfs under /sys.
                                                                                        at a lower cost than creating
                      Resource isolation, such as CPU and                               (§5.2).
           Cgroup                                                     30 ∼ 400 ms
                      memory usage control.
                      Other isolated resources, such as time and
           Other                                                         <1 ms          Create with low overhead.
                      pid namespaces.
                      Post-initialized state of functions,                              Introduce new kernel
           Memory     including loaded language runtime,                >300 ms         interfaces, bypass costly
 Process




                      imported libraries and user code.                                 memory copy (§5.1).
                      Multi-thread context, registers, sockets,                         Handled by CRIU with
           Other                                                       3 ∼ 15 ms
                      open file descriptors, etc.                                       strong generality.


components of these environments across different functions and nodes as much as possible. Rather
than discarding this execution environment upon the completion of a function instance, TrEnv-X
cleanses and reallocates it to a repurposable sandbox pool. Subsequent functions can reuse these
sandboxes by attaching function-specific memory states, which are offloaded to a shared CXL
or RDMA-based memory pool. This process, termed “repurposing” in TrEnv-X, is depicted in
Figure 6. Through innovative enhancements at the operating system (OS) and core libraries like
Checkpoint/Restore In Userspace (CRIU) [35], this procedure typically takes less than 10 ms for
containers. Only updated (writable) memory pages are instantiated per invocation, while read-only
pages are transparently shared across multiple instances and nodes.
   TrEnv-X’s approach of container repurposing, while bearing similarities to existing caching
solutions, distinguishes itself in two significant ways. Firstly, TrEnv-X enables the transparent
reuse of sandboxes not only across invocations of the same function, but also across different
function types, regardless of whether the function runs in a container or microVM environment.
TrEnv-X performs a systematic decomposition of sandbox creation overhead to determine which
components are safely reusable and which require lightweight reconfiguration. To achieve this, we
have identified crucial kernel objects that contribute to the overhead of creating isolated sandboxes.
Some of these components are directly reusable across different functions, while others necessitate a
tailored reconfiguration that upholds cost-effectiveness without compromising isolation properties
relative to previous container-based systems. These components are listed in Table 1 and will be
discussed in detail in §4.1 and §5.2.
   Secondly, TrEnv-X offloads function-specific memory states to a shared memory pool. This
strategy shares the states across multiple server nodes, effectively amortizing the overall expense.
TrEnv-X also supports an effective deduplication process that eliminates redundant states across
different functions, potentially reducing memory usage by up to 48% in our evaluated functions (Ta-
ble 4 in §9.1). However, operating system modifications are required to rapidly instantiate serverless
functions from snapshots stored in remote memory pools. This process resembles performing a
“fork” but includes capabilities beyond those offered by current operating systems. To support this,

                                                                    , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
4                                                                                          Jialiang et al.


we have extended the kernel with an mm-template API, enabling the creation of custom memory
templates for each serverless function. These templates consist of reserved page tables that map to
remote, potentially overlapping, non-contiguous memory segments within the pool, representing
deduplicated snapshots of serverless functions.

                                          mm-templates           No Penalty for
                                                               Read-only Access
                                                               Major Page Fault for
                                          Local Mem
                                                                  ANY Access
                                        CXL Mem Pool           Byte Addressable


                                                      RDMA Mem Pool

                                             Network-attached Storage (NAS)


                                   Fig. 1. Multi-layer architecture of mm-template.

   The flexibility of our design is one of its key strengths. As demonstrated in Figure 1, TrEnv-
X integrates mm-templates with both CXL and RDMA memory pools, each offering distinct
advantages. Notably, to leverage the byte-addressable capabilities of CXL, mm-templates enable
direct reads for read-only pages, which introduces zero additional software-level overhead during
execution. Given our analysis showing that 24% to 90% of memory accesses are to read-only
pages in serverless functions, this technique substantially accelerates processing times by avoiding
unnecessary data copying or page faults, thereby significantly reducing latency. Despite this, existing
OS primarily utilizes CXL for memory expansion as per the capabilities of CXL 1.1, thus lacking
support for memory sharing and deduplication required in multi-node environments introduced
since CXL 2.0. To overcome this limitation, we have enhanced the OS to allow precise control
over the mapping between virtual and physical addresses in CXL memory and supported both
file-backed and anonymous memory mappings to maintain a process’s complete state, including
heap and stack areas.
   Different from CXL, integrating RDMA-based remote memory follows a lazy paging strategy,
where any access to remote memory triggers a major page fault that fetches a 4KB block online.
Since all states in the memory pool are read-only, with write operations managed through copy-
on-write mechanisms, a multi-layered architecture integrates seamlessly with our approach. This
allows for the strategic placement of hot pages in the upper layers, such as CXL or even local
memory, and cold pages in the lower layers, such as RDMA or even network-attached storage. The
specific number of layers, as well as the cache eviction or page promotion strategies, are orthogonal
to our core implementation.
   Moreover, the ease of use is the most important attraction of serverless computing. To avoid the
need for users to modify their code or recompile their applications, TrEnv-X decides to transparently
incorporate repurposable sandboxes and mm-templates into the serverless platform. It implements
a new “repurpose” command in CRIU, based on the existing “restore” command. This facilitates the
seamless integration with many existing serverless platforms due to CRIU’s widespread adoption
in mainstream container runtimes like Docker[71] and Podman[4].
   While above optimizations primarily target container-based platforms, VM-based isolation
remains the mainstream choice for public cloud providers due to its stronger security guarantees. To
demonstrate TrEnv-X’s versatility in VM-based environments, we apply and evaluate it on emerging
LLM agent workloads, a challenging scenario characterized by dynamic invocation patterns and
fluctuating resource demands. This evaluation further led to two additional optimizations specific
to the VM-based sandbox and LLM agent: page cache bypassing and browser sharing, which

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
TrEnv-X : Transparently Share Serverless Execution Environments Across Different Functions and Nodes                   5


enhance startup efficiency and memory utilization. Together, these extensions enable high-density,
high-performance execution of LLM agent applications atop VM-based serverless platforms.
  This paper makes the following key contributions:
   • We analyze the performance bottlenecks and characteristics of agent and serverless applica-
      tions on both container- (§2.2,§4.1,§4.2) and VM-based platforms (§2.3,§3,§6.1).
   • We propose a repurposable sandbox design (§5.2) that enables transparent sharing across
      heterogeneous function types, reducing per-invocation overhead.
   • We design and implement the mm-template API (§5.1), which facilitates remote memory
      state sharing with minimal restoration latency and reduced memory duplication.
   • We introduce two optimizations for agent applications on VM-based platforms: (1) extending
      our sharing mechanism to browser processes to reduce execution latency (§6.2), and (2)
      integrating virtio-pmem with mm-template to enable memory state sharing while mitigating
      page cache duplication (§6.3).
   • We develop TrEnv-X, a serverless platform built atop faasd [75] and Cloud Hypervisor [91],
      supporting both container and VM runtimes.
   • Our evaluation on container-based workloads demonstrates that: (1) For prior serverless
     workloads, TrEnv-X achieves up to 7× and 16× speedup in P99 end-to-end latency under
      concurrent loads compared with REAP [94] and FaaSnap [22], two state-of-the-art (SOTA)
      lazy restoration methods, respectively; TrEnv-X reduces peak memory usage by 48% on
      average; (2) A detailed comparison between real-world CXL and RDMA memory pools reveals
      that CXL provides more stable performance, particularly at P99, and offers up to a 3.51×
      speedup on execution time over RDMA.
   • Our evaluation on VM-based agent workloads demonstrates TrEnv-X achieves at most 61%
      memory savings and 58% P99 latency reduction compared with the SOTA system, E2B, after
      adopting our optimizations, while keeping the same efficient startup latency.
   • We have open-sourced TrEnv-X, which is available at https://github.com/kvcache-ai/TrEnv-
     X.

2     Background and Motivation
2.1    Dissaggregated Memory
CXL Compute Express Link (CXL) [33, 36] is emerging as a promising technology in the realm of
high-speed server interconnects, notable for its low latency [104], high bandwidth [89, 90], and
ability to enable shared memory access between servers. Its adoption by industry giants [64, 69]
also underscores its increasing significance and application in modern computing infrastructure.
   Our research primarily concentrates on CXL’s capability of sharing memory across different
machines, which has been supported by multi-headed devices (MHD) even with CXL 2.0 [55]. Real-
world support for this capability has been demonstrated in previous research [104]. Collaborations
between many companies [51, 70, 80, 99] have also led to a commercial solution that enabled up to
7.5 TB CXL-attached memory pool shared by up to 12 servers [5]. We only need read-only sharing
capabilities, so a Type-3 device with multiple CXL 2.0 interfaces (MHD) is sufficient without the
hardware coherency introduced in CXL 3.0.
   CXL’s fine-grained and efficient access capability means only the needed cache lines are retrieved,
not entire pages. Thus, it provides a potentially faster alternative to RDMA.
RDMA Prior to CXL, RDMA was the standard protocol for building disaggregated memory pools,
which can be grouped into two main categories: Firstly, solutions such as Infiniswap [49] and
Fastswap [18] enable efficient swapping over RDMA. Secondly, frameworks and runtimes like
AsymNVM [68] and FaRM [38] offer coarse-grained abstractions that resemble key-value stores or

                                                                 , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
6                                                                                                              Jialiang et al.


file interfaces. TrEnv-X tries to implement transparent and extensible in-kernel functionality to
support various remote memory, including but not limited to RDMA.

2.2    Serverless Computing
The very idea of serverless is fragmenting applications into smaller, independent tasks that can be
dispatched to whichever node has available CPU resources, thereby enhancing resource utilization.
However, the pursuit of this optimal elasticity often encounters two predominant barriers:
   (1) A target node may sometimes lack sufficient memory, preventing task dispatch, due to the
       tight coupling between computational and memory resources.
   (2) Additional overheads introduced by this fragmentation, such as cold starts and memory
       duplication.
The adoption of disaggregated memory has emerged as a viable solution to the first issue, with
studies like Fastswap [18] and Pond [64] exploring its benefits. Our research pivots towards
harnessing CXL/RDMA-based shared memory pool to tackle the second barrier.
   Referring to the “Cold Start” bar in Figure 2, we identify two significant costs:
   (1) The preparation of an isolated sandbox, including tasks like creating the rootfs.
   (2) The cost involved in bootstrapping the function’s processes, such as launching interpreters
       and importing libraries.
These ancillary overheads overshadow the proportion of the function’s actual productive execution
time, given that many studies report that most serverless functions execute in less than one
second [59, 82]. Besides, the same cold start problem exists in LLM agent appliactions, especially
for ones with short end-to-end latency, e.g., Blackjack in Table 2.




1 Restores other states of processes, such as recovering multi-thread context, reopening files, and re-establishing sockets.



Fig. 2. Breakdown of the latency for a Python-based function, highlighting the overhead associated with the
sandbox. The evaluation setup is detailed in §9.1.



2.3    MicroVM in Serverless
Modern serverless platforms generally fall into two categories:
 (1) Container-based platforms (e.g., OpenFaaS [76]), which employ Linux namespaces and
     cgroups for lightweight isolation.
 (2) VM-based platforms (e.g., Cloud Hypervisor [91]), which provide hardware-enforced isolation
     through virtual machines.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
TrEnv-X : Transparently Share Serverless Execution Environments Across Different Functions and Nodes                   7


   While container-based frameworks offer efficiency and low overhead, their shared-kernel design
weakens security. Containers rely on software-based isolation; thus, any privilege escalation or
kernel vulnerability (e.g., CVE-2017-5123 [1]) can allow an attacker to escape the container and
compromise the host.
   In contrast, VM-based serverless platforms encapsulate each function within a dedicated guest
kernel, protected by hardware mechanisms such as extended page tables (EPT) [54]. Although such
designs mitigate security concerns, they introduce new inefficiencies, including longer startup la-
tency and higher memory overhead from hypervisors. Recent efforts purpose the microVM [13, 65],
mitigating these costs by employing minimized guest kernels and simplified device models. It can
achieve performance comparable to containers. However, our experiments reveal a persistent ineffi-
ciency: page cache duplication among microVMs. In serverless environments, multiple instances of
the same function often access identical binaries and data, yet each VM maintains its own virtual
block device and guest-side page cache. As a result, identical files are redundantly cached across
guest kernels and even duplicated within their corresponding image files on the host.
   Despite their architectural differences, containers and microVMs share a fundamental similar-
ity from the host’s perspective: both execute as host processes governed by Linux cgroups and
namespaces. Consequently, both suffer comparable overheads in preparing and managing isolated
sandboxes.

2.4   Existing Research
Cold start overhead. Historically, caching mechanisms have been extensively studied and deployed
to mitigate cold start overheads [45, 79, 82]. However, as discussed earlier, they introduce a trade-off
between expediting initialization and reserving resources, which in turn impedes system elasticity.
   Prior research efforts have thus been directed towards reducing the cost of caching by eschewing
the reservation of active containers. Instead, they created snapshots or templates of a function’s
complete state immediately after initialization and stored them as files [43, 50, 85]. When a new
instance needed to be started, it was restored from the snapshot, bypassing the bootstrapping
phase.
   Nevertheless, these strategies fail to fully conquer the aforementioned challenges. As highlighted
by the CRIU bar in Figure 2:
   (1) The need to establish a new isolated sandbox still exists, thereby sustaining the associated
       overheads. Our findings also indicate that isolation costs escalate with concurrent cold starts.
       For example, concurrently initiating 15 instances results in a network setup time of 400 ms,
       aligning with prior studies [72, 74].
   (2) the memory restoration overhead (“Mem” in Figure 2) is still non-negligible due to costly data
       copying. In Figure 2, we store the snapshot files in a local DRAM-based tmpfs to avoid the
       overhead of disk or network I/O. However, as we can see from the figure, memory copying
       alone takes over 60 ms during container bootstrapping, even for its small 60MB memory
       image. This overhead scales with the size of the memory image. For instance, a 360MB
       memory image would take over 220 ms to restore.
   Further optimizations have been suggested to alleviate these challenges. But, according to our
investigation, a holistic solution remains elusive. Lightweight container technologies [74], for
instance, mitigate the overhead of sandbox setup but do so at the cost of compromised isolation,
making them unsuitable in multi-tenant contexts. In practice, serverless platforms, such as Open-
Whisk [6], still resort to standard containers for a better level of isolation, or even opt for secure
containers (i.e., VM) [13, 50, 65], which could entail higher initialization costs.
   Additionally, several “lazy restore” techniques have been proposed to hide the latency of data
copying, such as recording and prefetch-based replay [22, 94] or restoring state through efficient

                                                                 , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
8                                                                                        Jialiang et al.


RDMA reads in a manner akin to a remote on-demand “fork” [98]. Nonetheless, these methodologies
(1) merely defer the restoration overhead to the execution phase rather than reduce it, (2) do not
leverage the potential of various remote memory pools, (3) focus on memory restoration but
overlook the overhead associated with isolated sandboxes, such as namespaces and cgroups.
Duplicated page cache. Prior work has addressed similar issues by implementing exclusive
caching between the storage cache (e.g., RAM on disk arrays) and the OS page cache [23, 58]. These
solutions estimate the contents of the guest OS page cache based on file metadata or access patterns,
and use this information to guide which blocks should be cached in a secondary storage layer.
However, such gray-box approaches require the hypervisor to infer guest page cache behavior from
indirect signals (e.g., VM exits), which often leads to inaccurate decisions. Alternatively, content-
based deduplication has been proposed to mitigate cache redundancy [83]. This method avoids
inference by directly scanning memory for duplicate content. However, it incurs significant CPU
overhead and introduces latency due to the time required for scanning and matching duplicated
pages.
   More recently, Rund [65] adopts a para-virtualization method using virtiofs [12] with DAX
(Direct Access) support, which maps the host page cache directly into the guest’s physical address
space, bypassing the guest page cache. While this design avoids duplication, it suffers from several
limitations: (1) The current virtiofs architecture relies on a separate daemon that serves guest file
requests via a FUSE interface. This design mandates the use of shared memory (e.g., memfd) to back
guest memory, which conflicts with copy-on-write mechanisms that are essential for offloading
memory state across distributed remote memory pools. (2) The DAX feature in virtiofs is not yet
stable in official implementations. For example, virtiofsd [11] removed DAX support in 2024, and
Cloud Hypervisor deprecated its DAX-based virtiofs support as early as 2022.

3     Case Study: LLM Agent
The challenges of startup overhead and memory redundancy are particularly acute in VM-based
serverless platforms. To evaluate the effectiveness and versatility of TrEnv-X’s design in this
demanding context, we present a case study on LLM agents, a class of emerging workloads that
exemplifies the dynamic and resource-intensive nature of future serverless applications.

3.1    Basics of LLM Agents.
Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated substantial capabilities across a range of tasks,
including natural language understanding and content generation [92, 93]. These advances have
catalyzed the emergence of a new class of LLM-driven applications for autonomous task completion,
commonly referred to as agents (e.g., [52, 53, 63]). An agent is a system or program that leverages
an LLM to solve user-defined tasks, incorporating capabilities such as reasoning, planning, and
external tool usage.
   To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that aims to optimize serving platforms
for LLM-based agents. Currently, no standard benchmark applications exist for evaluation. We
therefore selected representative agents from widely used open-source frameworks, including
LangChain [63], Browser-Use [73], OWL [53] and OpenManus [67]. The chosen agents encompass
a broad spectrum of scenarios, covering diverse execution patterns (e.g., fixed, map-reduce, and
ReAct), varied tool usage (e.g., browsers, RAG, and code interpreters), and different running charac-
teristics (e.g., end-to-end latency and resource utilization). We evaluate representative agents from
widely-used open-source frameworks, including LangChain [63], Browser-Use [73], OWL [53]
and OpenManus [67]. LangChain offers the greatest flexibility for constructing agent applications,
enabling users to compose custom workflows by integrating modular components. However, it
typically requires manual programming to assemble an agent. In contrast, Browser-Use integrates

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
TrEnv-X : Transparently Share Serverless Execution Environments Across Different Functions and Nodes                          9


                 Table 2. The characteristic of representative agents evaluated on Firecracker.

Agent              Framework         Description                                      E2E Lat∗      Memory        CPU Time
Blackjack          LangChain         Play the Blackjack game.                            3.2 s       74 MB          411 ms
Bug fixer          LangChain         Fix the bugs in given code.                        36.5 s       95 MB          809 ms
Map reduce         LangChain         Split and summarize a document.                    56.5 s       199 MB          1.2 s
Shop assistant     Browser-Use       Select the ideal products on a website.            140.7 s     1080 MB          10.3 s
Blog summary       OWL               Collect and summary blogs.                         193.1 s     1246 MB          56.8 s
Game design        OpenManus         Implement a html-based game.                       107.0 s     1389 MB          7.5 s
∗ End-to-end latency.




robust browser automation into the agent design. OWL and OpenManus provide out-of-the-box
agents equipped with built-in tools, such as browsers and search engines. Table 2 summarizes
the resource requirements of these agents deployed on a VM-based platform that leverages Fire-
cracker’s native snapshot mechanism. Notably, we observe substantial variation in execution time
and memory consumption across agents. Based on their resource profiles and structural complexity,
these agents can be broadly categorized into two types:
  (1) These agents use a minimal set of tools and exhibit low memory consumption and short end-
      to-end execution times. For example, the “Bug Fixer” agent follows a simple static workflow:
      (a) it executes erroneous code using a Python interpreter, and (b) sends the output to an LLM
      API to obtain fix suggestions.
  (2) These agents often adopt the ReAct strategy [101] and are equipped with a diverse set of
      tools. For instance, the OWL agent employs a dynamic execution graph and integrates search
      engines, web browsers, and document parsers (e.g., for PDF files). Unlike lightweight agents,
      their execution is governed by real-time LLM decisions rather than a pre-defined static
      workflow.

                                                PDF parser
            Static Step                                                                               LLM
            Dynamic Step               Text 1      Split              Text N                      Self-Decision
          Updated Code                                                                      Tool Using
                                       LLM         LLM       ......   LLM
  Code Exec             LLM                                                            Web          Search ......
                                                                                                                      Stop
                                                                                      Browser       Engine
                  No                             Concat
      Succeed                                                                                                       Output
           Yes                                     LLM                                         Result Synthesis

 Output Code                                    Summary

(a) Bug fixer’s static workflow.         (b) Map reduce workflow.                    (c) ReAct Agent with tool using.

                                   Fig. 3. Typical workflow of agent applications.



3.2     Serverless for Agents
In the serverless computing model, applications are structured as individual functions, each de-
ployed independently and triggered by configurable events. The number of concurrently running
function instances automatically scales in or out based on workload demands. Furthermore, cloud

                                                                       , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
10                                                                                        Jialiang et al.


providers typically charge only for the actual execution time of each function, often at sub-second
granularity. This paradigm has gained widespread adoption, particularly for applications with
dynamic workloads and variable resource requirements.
   Agent-based applications naturally exhibit dynamic execution characteristics, making them well-
suited for serverless deployment. First, their execution times are highly variable. The execution
of an agent involves multiple steps that can be represented as a directed acyclic graph (DAG). As
illustrated in Figure 3, agents can follow diverse execution paths, depending on factors such as the
task definition, user input, tool availability, LLM-generated content, and LLM runtime performance.
For instance, in our experiments, the end-to-end latency of the "MapReduce" agent ranges from 42
to 60 seconds. Despite using a fixed execution DAG and identical input across runs, the inherent
non-determinism of LLM generation introduces significant variation in runtime. Second, agent
memory demands vary widely. Some agents utilize only lightweight tools, resulting in minimal
memory usage. For example, the "MapReduce" agent only relies on a simple external tool to parse
PDF documents. In contrast, other agents require more complex tools, such as web browsers, which
lead to higher memory consumption. For instance, the "Blog Summary" agent launches a browser
to capture snapshots of web pages when searching for blog content on specified topics.
   Given these execution-time fluctuations and diverse resource requirements, serverless platforms
offer a compelling infrastructure for hosting agent applications, leveraging their elastic scalability
and fine-grained, usage-based billing.

3.3    Costs of Serverless for Agents
Our detailed analysis reveals that deploying agents on serverless platforms can incur sub-
stantial costs, sometimes comparable to the cost of LLM API calls. This finding is somewhat
counterintuitive, as LLM invocation is typically considered the primary cost concern. However,
recent advances in LLM inference techniques, such as batching [103] and disaggregation [106],
have significantly reduced the cost of LLM usage. For instance, the price of GPT-4o was halved
between 2024 and 2025.
   LLM billing is based on tokens, which are also the fundamental processing unit for LLMs.
Depending on the tokenizer, a token may represent a word, part of a word, or a phrase. Each
LLM call incurs costs based on the number of input tokens (prompt tokens) and output tokens
(completion tokens), which are typically priced separately. Given an input token length 𝐿𝑖𝑛 and
output token length 𝐿𝑜𝑢𝑡 , the total cost of an LLM call is calculated as:
                                            𝐶𝐿𝐿𝑀 = 𝐿𝑖𝑛 × 𝑃𝑖𝑛 + 𝐿𝑜𝑢𝑡 × 𝑃𝑜𝑢𝑡                           (1)
where 𝑃𝑖𝑛 and 𝑃𝑜𝑢𝑡 denote the prices per input and output token, respectively. Table 3 reports the
token usage across various agents.

                              Table 3. The LLM token usage in representative agents.


                                     Agent                 Input Tok   Output Tok
                                     Blackjack               1690          8
                                     Bug fixer               1557         530
                                     Map reduce              8640         2644
                                     Shop assistant         43185         1494
                                     Blog summary           49398         2703
                                     Game design            75121         2098


, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
TrEnv-X : Transparently Share Serverless Execution Environments Across Different Functions and Nodes                             11


  Most existing public serverless platforms (e.g., AWS Lambda, Alibaba Function Compute and
Google Cloud Run [15, 19, 48]) charge based on execution time and allocated resources. For example,
AWS Lambda bills at $ 1.67×10−8 per millisecond per GB of memory. For a single function invocation
with end-to-end execution time 𝑇 and memory allocation 𝑀, the cost is computed as:
                                                             𝐶 𝑠 = 𝑇 × 𝑃𝑠 × 𝑀                                                   (2)
where 𝑃𝑠 refers to the unit price per second per GB.

                                              GPT-4.1-mini   GPT-4o-mini   DeepSeek-V3      Gemini-2.5-Flash
                           50
                                                                                            9.03E-03
                                                                            7.37E-03
      Relative Cost (% )




                           40                  5.52E-04

                           30
                                                                                                               1.25E-02
                           20                                 2.88E-03
                                2.58E-04
                           10

                            0
                                   ck              er         duce              t                      n
                            Blackja        Bug fix      Map re           ssistan log summary Game desig
                                                                   Shop a         B
                                                                     Agents

Fig. 4. The proportion of Serverless cost (𝐶𝑠 ) relative to the total cost (𝐶𝐿𝐿𝑀 + 𝐶𝑠 ), where the upper value
denotes the total absolute cost associated with the Gemini 2.5 Flash model.

   Using this cost model, we analyze the total cost of running various agents (as summarized in Table
2), and present the results in Figure 4. We observe two key findings: Firstly, Serverless execution
can represent a substantial portion of total expenditure. In our measurements, it accounted for
as much as 42% of overall costs for certain agents, which is comparable to that associated with
LLM calls. Second, complex agents incur higher serverless costs. Their latency is typically split
between (1) waiting for LLM outputs and (2) using external tools (e.g., web browsers). Unlike
lightweight agents, which spend most of their time waiting on LLM responses, complex agents
perform significant non-LLM operations, thereby accumulating longer active execution time and
higher serverless charges. As user tasks grow more complex, we expect the prevalence of complex
agents to increase. Therefore, optimizing serverless cost efficiency, especially for agent-centric
applications, is becoming increasingly important.

3.4      Limitation of Serverless for Agents
Further analysis of agent workloads reveals two primary contributors to the high cost of serverless
deployment. First, CPU utilization is generally low. Although one of the key advantages of serverless
computing is its pay-as-you-go pricing model, users are still billed for CPU resource allocation over
the entire execution duration. However, agent workloads typically do not require exclusive CPU
usage throughout their runtime. In fact, as shown in Table 2, agents often utilize less than 25% of
allocated CPU resources during execution. This inefficiency is largely due to I/O-bound behavior,
where agents spend a significant portion of their time waiting for external I/O operations rather
than actively performing computation.
   Second, memory consumption remains high for certain (especially complex) agents, even though
the measurements reported in Table 2 already adopt snapshotting techniques. Specifically, memory
that is (1) unused after initialization or (2) read-only is excluded from the usage statistics. Thus, the

                                                                            , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
12                                                                                                                                           Jialiang et al.

       Linux Process

      Repurposable Sandbox                                                                                                                               Host 2
                                                                                                                      Func Y Container                  Host 1
                       Reuse with Reconfiguration                                             Snapshot Img
                                                                                                                   Repurposable Sandbox Y
                                                                             A1                                                              B2
                        Rootfs          Cgroup                                                                B3
                                                                              Func Y Processes                            Other Y
                                                                                                   A2
      Reuse                                            Create                                           No Mem            Mem Y                  Sandbox Pool
                                                                                                         Copy
                                                    Other Isolation   CRIU   OS    MM Templates
       veth               Other Process State                                                                B4
    Network Env                                      Resources                                                     Repurposable Sandbox X
                             Memory State                                     Mem Layout
                                                                               Metadata                                   Other X
                                                                                           Page Table                     Mem X             B1

                                                                                                                      Func X Container
Fig. 5. TrEnv-X’s view of a container. It con-
                                                          Deduplicated Mem    Deduplicated Mem
sists of two parts: a repurposable sandbox,                 Img of Func X       Img of Func Y  Memory Pool

which is comprised of isolation resources such
as the root filesystem (rootfs); and a group of
processes, the critical component of which is Fig. 6. Overview of TrEnv-X. Steps A1-A2 refer to offline
the memory state.                               preprocessing, while steps B1-B4 refer to online repurposing.



reported memory footprint reflects only the dynamic memory allocated during runtime. A major
contributor to this runtime memory usage is page cache duplication between the guest and
host operating systems. For example, in the “Blog Summary” agent, approximately 500 MB is
consumed by the guest kernel’s page cache and another 500 MB by the host kernel’s page cache.
This duplication arises from the para-virtualized storage device used in Firecracker. When a file is
accessed by an application inside the guest, the data is cached in the guest page cache. The access
is then emulated by the host hypervisor, causing the identical data to be cached again in the host
page cache. This redundant caching during execution leads to inefficient memory utilization, as
both the guest and host maintain separate copies of the same content.

4      Overview of the Container-Based Platform
The key idea of TrEnv-X is an innovative repurposing strategy for reusing sandboxes and memory
states of functions. In a traditional caching strategy, the cached instance is limited to being reused
by the same function. TrEnv-X diverges from this by enabling an efficient transition from an idle
function instance to any one of the pending functions, regardless of its type. Thus, it achieves a
universal sandbox pool. By moving away from the rigid, function-type-specific model to a more
flexible, function-type-agnostic one, our design substantially enhances the elasticity of serverless
computing. Crucially, TrEnv-X accomplishes this with the same or stronger level of security and
isolation compared with previous systems.
   Implementing such a transparent and efficient state transition necessitates OS kernel changes
and updates to vital serverless infrastructures, such as CRIU. To further elucidate our concept and
its accompanying challenges, Figure 7 and Figure 6 present a detailed comparison of the function
initialization workflows between current C/R (checkpoint and restore) systems and TrEnv-X.
   The current workflow involves two phases: a preprocessing phase and an online restoration
phase. As depicted in step A′ of Figure 7, the preprocessing phase involves creating snapshots for
each function and storing them as files. These snapshots, representing the post-initialization state of
a function, are used for subsequent restorations. When a function is invoked, the system performs
two steps to start a new container: (B1′ ) it recreates a new sandbox (e.g., rootfs and cgroup) based
on metadata in the snapshot image; and then (B2′ ) it restores the processes states. A significant
challenge in step B2′ is restoring the memory state, which requires numerous mmap() system calls
to recover virtual memory layouts and costly data copying to reload memory contents.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
TrEnv-X : Transparently Share Serverless Execution Environments Across Different Functions and Nodes                         13

                                                                        VA-centric Interface         VA-PA-mixed Interface

                                                                                                                  3
                           Isolated Sandbox                          OS
Preprocess                                                                                                MM Template
                    A'              Other                               mm_struct                         VMA VMA
                                    Mem         Isolated Sandbox                                    1
                                                                           VMA     VMA                    Page Table
             CRIU
                                      B1'              Other                Page Table
  Restore                                              Mem                                                     RDMA NIC

                                      B2'   Mem Copy                                                       2
                         Snapshot                                                          Read-Only            Read-Only
                                                                       Local Mem               CXL Pool         RDMA Pool
Fig. 7. Two phases of CRIU in current container runtime.
Step A′ is the preprocessing phase, while step B1′ -B2′            Fig. 8. Three highlights in mm-template com-
are the online restoration phase.                                  pared to the mm_struct in Linux.



   While maintaining both phases, TrEnv-X introduces improvements to streamline the restoration
phase into the more efficient repurposing phase. In the preprocessing phase, TrEnv-X generates
snapshots for each function (step A1 in Figure 6) akin to the original CRIU. Yet, rather than saving
memory states as files, TrEnv-X first deduplicates them into consolidated images stored on remote
memory pools, then constructs one memory template (mm-template) per Linux process in the
function, based on these snapshots (step A2).
   As shown in Figure 8, each mm-template is an in-kernel object that has a structure similar to
how traditional memory state is maintained by the kernel for each process (i.e., mm_struct). It
has three unique features. 1 Not bound to a particular process but can be attached dynamically
into any active process. 2 Treat all remote memory read-only and enable copy-on-write. 3
Fine-grained control over page tables to map virtual address (VA) to physical address (PA) on
remote memory. It only contains the metadata of the memory state, such as a page table and virtual
memory layouts (i.e., vm_area_struct). Hence, its size is small (e.g., < 1 MB). By only copying this
metadata instead of large memory images during function restoration, the overhead is reduced
considerably. Additionally, copying from the same mm-template enables seamless memory sharing
among the instances of the same function and even across different hosts. TrEnv-X leverages these
mm-templates to expedite function transitions. As shown in Figure 6, the online restoration phase
in TrEnv-X consists of four steps.
 (B1) Upon completion of an instance of function X, TrEnv-X cleans its sandbox and puts it into a
      pool instead of discarding it. This step includes terminating existing processes within the
      container, ensuring any residual state from the predecessor will not be kept for security
      reasons.
 (B2) When a function Y’s invocation is pending, TrEnv-X selects a sandbox from the pool and
      repurposes it into the pending type Y. This includes applying a unique overlay filesystem of
      function Y (more in §5.2.1) and restoring the corresponding cgroup limits. Note that TrEnv-X
      still offers all isolation components (e.g., cgroup and namespaces) as with a standard Docker
      container to every function instance.
 (B3) TrEnv-X issues a “repurpose” request to CRIU. CRIU helps the restored processes of function
      Y to join the repurposed sandbox and recover other process states except for the memory state,
      such as calling clone() to restore multi-thread context. This repurpose-and-join pattern
      allows efficient reuse of sandbox units like namespaces and cgroups.
 (B4) TrEnv-X attaches the mm-template to the restored process of function Y, efficiently restor-
      ing its memory state. Note that TrEnv-X executes the aforementioned steps transparently,
      requiring no code modifications or recompilation from users.

                                                                   , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
14                                                                                         Jialiang et al.


However, the implementation of the above steps each has its challenges.

4.1    Challenge on Reusing Isolated Sandbox
As shown by the breakdown analysis in Figure 2, the cost of creating a new sandbox predominantly
consists of three parts, namely for the rootfs, network environment, and cgroup. While network
namespaces and virtual network devices can be safely reused without leaking private data from
execution, reusing other resources presents unique challenges.
   Each function comes with unique dependencies in its rootfs, such as specific libraries or files.
This diversity, along with the requirement of isolation, complicates the possibility of a universal
sandbox that can be seamlessly repurposed across functions. Consequently, there is a need for a
mechanism that allows rapid filesystem transitions to accommodate these varying dependencies
while minimizing storage overhead. Previous work [66] proposed to mount the dependencies of
different functions into the sandbox in a read-only manner. However, it is essential to ensure write
access to all paths in the rootfs, which is crucial for a practical serverless platform, as emphasized
by Alibaba [65] and Amazon [27].
   Cgroups play a critical role for resource isolation, including limiting the usage CPU, memory and
block device. Its typical workflow involves three steps: (1) create a cgroup for each sandbox (2) spawn
container or VMM processes, and (3) move the processes into the newly created cgroup. The third
step is referred to as cgroup migration in Linux. Prior studies focused on alleviating the bottlenecks
in the first step, such as maintaining a cgroup pool to amortize the creation overhead [65, 74]. Our
investigations reveal that the cgroup migration typically incurs latency ranging from 10 to 50 ms,
while the cgroup creation latency ranges from 16 ms to 32 ms. Therefore, there is a significant need
to address and minimize the overhead stemming from cgroup migration.

4.2    Challenge on Implementing mm-template
The implementation of memory templates necessitates substantial modifications to existing OS
memory management interfaces. In this section, we highlight three challenges associated with the
implementation. First, mm-template must be extensible and capable of transparently supporting
access interfaces of different types of remote memory. For example, CPUs can directly access
CXL memory via load/store instructions, RDMA employs a message queue model, and NAS uses
a block-based I/O interface. The mm-template should accommodate these different interfaces,
establishing an extensible framework that can utilize multi-layer memory pools.
   Second, the system should minimize additional overhead. Traditional memory systems of-
ten adopt a lazy or on-demand approach, triggering memory loading during execution via page
faults [18] or a userspace daemon [94] via userfaultfd. These approaches are acceptable in previous
implementations because the predominant component of their latency remains in I/O (e.g., 60 µs
for SSD and 6 µs for RDMA). However, the low-latency, byte-addressable features of CXL memory
make it crucial to avoid additional overheads, such as page faults, which could drastically degrade
performance and obscure its advantages.
   Finally, the OS needs to be extended to support shared CXL memory. Current OS memory
interfaces are designed primarily for single-host memory expansion (as for CXL 1.1) and hence fall
short in supporting cross-host sharing and diverse memory mappings that TrEnv-X requires.
   Presently, two main approaches are used for incorporating CXL memory in Linux:
   (1) Expose the CXL memory as a CPU-less NUMA node [64, 89].
   (2) Designate CXL memory as a special device file (e.g., /dev/dax0.1) and pass it to mmap(),
       with the help of direct access (DAX) [7] drivers.
   The CPU-less NUMA approach is typically suitable only for memory expansion. Due to the
Linux memory allocator’s design for physical address transparency, it prevents the specification of

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
TrEnv-X : Transparently Share Serverless Execution Environments Across Different Functions and Nodes                  15


physical addresses during allocation. Hence, it is challenging to coordinate multiple hosts to share
CXL memory pages. Although the DAX method permits setting physical offsets on CXL memory
devices via mmap, it has its own set of limitations:
   (1) The DAX driver does not support private mappings, which means it does not support copy-
       on-write for CXL memory pages.
   (2) DAX is incompatible with regular-file-backed and some anonymous memory mappings,
       which are essential for critical process regions like heap and stack.
As in Figure 9a, enforcing mm-template to restore heap areas through the DAX method could
inadvertently cause heap growth (e.g., brk) to jump into adjacent CXL memory ranges, posing
risks of memory disclosure or data corruption.

                    Virtual Address      CXL Memory          Virtual Address      CXL Memory
                      Space of X                               Space of X
                                             Image X                                 Image X


                         Heap X              Image Y             Heap X              Image Y

                          Heap                                    Heap            Local Memory
                         Growth                                  Growth

                                                                                      Private
                                   Leakage


                              (a) Vanilla DAX                          (b) TrEnv-X

Fig. 9. The result of heap growth during execution after restoring the heap area of function X on CXL memory.



5     Design of Container-based Platform
In this section, we describe how TrEnv-X solves the challenges described in §4.

5.1    Memory Template Design
To enhance transparency, we have implemented the mm-template within the OS kernel and
integrated it into CRIU. This integration allows serverless applications to leverage the advantages
of memory pools without the need for code modifications or recompilation. For extensibility, the
mm-template supports various memory pool backends including CXL and RDMA. During the
preprocessing phase, CRIU creates and fills an mm-template for each process in the serverless
function. There is a built-in page table in the mm-template, which can be manipulated directly
by its interface, i.e., mmt_setup_pt. The semantics of this interface is to set up page table entries
(PTEs) in the mm-template, to point to a particular memory region on remote memory. The PTEs
saves essential information including remote addresses and a special bit that identifies the type
of memory pool. For slower backends like RDMA, TrEnv-X adopts a lazy approach, marking the
corresponding PTEs as invalid. Thus, page faults are triggered during execution, allowing the kernel
to identify these pages via the special bit in the PTE and route them to appropriate memory pool
backends. These backends then allocate local pages and use the remote address in the PTE to load
content from remote pools through their specific interfaces and implementations.
   In contrast to remote memory pools like RDMA that are not directly accessible and incur page
faults during execution, TrEnv-X leverages low-latency, byte-addressable CXL memory to eliminate
software-level overheads for read access. During preprocessing, mm-template preconfigures valid
page table entries (PTEs) that directly map to shared snapshot images in CXL memory. This enables

                                                                 , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
16                                                                                                     Jialiang et al.


the CPU to access data via standard load instructions, avoiding context switches and minor page
faults. By shifting the overhead of on-demand paging to the preprocessing phase, TrEnv-X achieves
zero-cost read access during execution. To enable memory sharing across function instances without
duplicating the entire memory image, TrEnv-X adopts a copy-on-write (CoW) strategy. When
setting up PTEs for CXL-backed memory, write protection is applied during preprocessing. A write
access at runtime triggers a page fault, at which point the page is copied to local RAM, preserving
isolation across instances. To assess the potential for read-only sharing and the cost of CoW, we
evaluate the functions listed in Table 4. For each function, we take a snapshot after initialization,
restore a single instance from the snapshot, and then execute a complete invocation. After execution,
we count the number of memory pages that were read and written, respectively. The results, shown
in Figure 10, demonstrate that a significant portion of memory remains read-only, indicating that
CoW can preserve efficiency while maintaining the integrity of single copy of remote memory
images.

                                                      Read-Only Ratio       Write Ratio
                               IFR
              Serverless Function




                               JJS
                               CR
                                CH
                                VP
                                 IP
                                 IR
                                PR
                                JS
                                DH

                                      10   20       30     40      50        60       70   80   90   100
                                                                Ratio (%)


     Fig. 10. The read-only and write memory ratio of serverless functions in Table 4, using snapshotting.

   TrEnv-X also introduces a custom kernel driver to remove the limitations of the standard DAX
driver, which requires all CXL mappings to be associated with a device file (e.g., /dev/dax0.1).
This requirement conflicts with anonymous mappings (such as heap memory), which are inherently
file-independent, and prohibits mapping CXL memory to other files, such as the .data section of
executables. These restrictions stem from the design of the device-DAX driver, which configures
PTEs at run time via callbacks functions associated with memory mappings during creation (i.e.,
mmap). In the absence of a callback function association, the kernel defaults to allocating local
memoryUntitled-1
          pages, making transparent offloading to CXL infeasible. The new driver in TrEnv-X

             // create a new mm-template, return an identifier of mm-template in `id`
             int mmt_create(int *id);
             // add a memory region to mm-template, most arguments are the same as `mmap()`
             int mmt_add_map(int id, void *start, size_t len, int prot, int flags,
                 int fd, off_t offset);
             // setup page table for a particular memory region at `phys_offset` on
             // remote memory. `pool` denotes the type of memory pool (e.g., CXL or RDMA)
             int mmt_setup_pt(int id, void *start, size_t len, off_t phys_offset,
                 enum mem_pool_t pool);
             // attach the mm-template into process identified by `pid`
             int mmt_attach(int id, int pid);

                                                Fig. 11. Core API of mm-template.


, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
TrEnv-X : Transparently Share Serverless Execution Environments Across Different Functions and Nodes                  17

                                                  CXL Pool
                                                                                mm-template X
                                        R1                       R1             mm-template Y
                                                   Block 1
                                        R2                       R2            0x7FFF4000
                                 3            4

                                                   Block 2                     0x88000
                          2
                                                      1                           PID: 666
                                        R2'                      R2'
                                                                                     R2'
                                        R3         Block 3       R3        5
                                                                                     R3

                                                                                Process of Y
                               Host 1             RDMA Pool     Host 2


                              Fig. 12. A simplified example of using mm-template.


 enables flexible memory management by allowing mm-template to explicitly set PTEs in advance.
As the core mm-template API illustrated in Figure 11, the preprocessing phase uses mmt_add_map
 to create virtual memory areas, followed by mmt_setup_pt to (1) translate offsets to physical CXL
 addresses, (2) set valid write-protected PTEs, and (3) pin the corresponding pages. This mechanism
 eliminates reliance on the DAX device and allows memory regions to be configured ahead of
 execution. Thus, mm-template can support both anonymous and regular-file-backed mappings on
 CXL memory. As shown in Figure 9b, heap areas reside in CXL memory after being attached via
 mmt_attach, while subsequent heap expansion will default to local memory allocation, avoiding
 interference with other shared CXL regions.
 Usage example of mm-template. Due to the transparency of mm-template, using CXL and
 RDMA only differs in the `pool` argument passed to mmt_setup_pt for PTE preconfiguration.
 Most of the complexity is hidden in the kernel. Figure 12 shows the workflow to use mm-template,
 involving two single-process functions. Initially, during the offline preprocessing phase, the system
 generates a snapshot for each function using CRIU. TrEnv-X then deduplicates these snapshots,
 resulting in a consolidated image stored in memory pools (step 1 in Fig 12). As shown in Fig 12,
 the snapshots for functions X and Y include a duplicated region (R2 and R2′ , respectively) mapped
 to the same Block 2 on remote memory. Additionally, TrEnv-X logs the physical start offset of each
 memory block on the memory pool, such as 0x88000 for Block 2, which comprises, for example, 4
 pages. This physical offset acts as a machine-independent pointer.
     Subsequently, each host constructs one mm-template for each process in the function (step
  2 ). For example, TrEnv-X calls mmt_create(&X) to initiate a memory template for function X.
This template is then populated with specific virtual memory mappings using the mmt_add_map
API (step 3 ). For example, to allocate the private read-only anonymous mapping R2 in X’s template,
TrEnv-X executes mmt_add_map(X, 0x7FFF4000, 4*PAGE_SIZE, PROT_READ, MAP_PRIVATE,
-1, 0). The address 0x7FFF4000, derived from the snapshot image, represents the original virtual
 memory address of R2 in the checkpointed process of X. The virtual memory mappings are then
 linked to the remote memory pool via mmt_setup_pt API (step 4 ). For example, mmt_setup_pt(X,
 0x7FFF4000, 4*PAGE_SIZE, 0x88000, CXL) associates R2 in X’s template with Block 2 on CXL
 memory. Our new kernel driver helps to convert the offset 0x88000 to the corresponding physical
 address on CXL memory and install valid PTEs. For the RDMA pool, such as R3 in mm-template Y,
 it installs invalid PTEs with the address in the RDMA memory pools, then loads memory pages in
 subsequent page faults.
     During the repurposing phase (i.e., critical path), TrEnv-X attaches the mm-template to the
 process to be restored, via mmt_attach API (step 5 ). Each mm-template can be attached multiple

                                                                 , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
18                                                                                                       Jialiang et al.


                                                                       App X Overlay FS     On Host
                                                  /                                        /home/app
                                                                           home/app   =        +
                    /dev/null   /sys/     /lib/       /bin/   /home/app/
                                                                                          modification
                                                                       App Y Overlay FS
                    char dev    sysfs
                                        Base Overlay FS                                   modification
                                                                           home/app
                                                                                      =         +
                                  Reuse                                                    /home/app


             Fig. 13. An example of rootfs reconfiguration. The red box indicates the mountpoint.

times, and it only copies the metadata, e.g., page tables, instead of the memory pages. For instance,
to restore the memory state of a process of function Y whose process ID (PID) is 666, TrEnv-X
executes mmt_attach(Y, 666).

5.2    Repurpose Isolated Sandbox
Two challenges related to isolated sandbox were mentioned in §4.1. The first is that varying
functions require different dependencies, making the reuse of rootfs non-trivial. The second is that
the overhead of cgroup migration is non-negligible and cannot be solved by current approaches.
5.2.1 Rootfs Reconfiguration. The standard container rootfs typically consists of multiple mount-
points within a per-container mount namespace (mntns), often using a base union filesystem like
overlayfs for the root directory. Notably, many dependencies (e.g., glibc and language interpreters)
are common across functions. Instead of switching the entire rootfs, our approach focuses on swap-
ping only the function-specific dependencies. By exploiting the flexibility of Linux mountpoints,
we overmount another union filesystem atop an existing path, effectively “replacing” its contents,
as shown in Figure 13. More precisely, there are three steps to reconfigure the rootfs between two
different functions. First, TrEnv-X purges file modifications from previous instances. As overlayfs
is a copy-on-write filesystem, all modified files are recorded in the upper directory. The purging
process involves deleting all the files in the upper directory and remounting the overlayfs to flush
stale inode cache. Second, TrEnv-X unmounts the function-specific overlayfs of previous function
from the mntns. Third, TrEnv-X mounts the function-specific overlayfs of new function into the
mntns. TrEnv-X further enhances this procedure by (1) executing the first step asynchronously, and
(2) maintaining a pool of function-specific overlayfs, instead of discarding them after unmounting.
Compared with Cold Start. Typically, preparing a rootfs for containers from scratch requires many
system calls, including more than 9 mount, 6 mkdev, 6 mknod and 1 pivot_root calls to Linux. For
example, it involves mounting a sysfs under /sys and making a character device under /dev/null.
TrEnv-X, in contrast, requires only 2 mount at minimum for function-specific dependencies and
/proc, efficiently reusing other mountpoints.
Compared with Lightweight Container. Many prior studies have adopted lightweight containers to
overcome the isolation bottleneck. For example, SOCK[74] has proposed a lean container, using
chroot and read-only bind mounts to set up its rootfs rapidly. However, according to the Linux
manual page [42], chroot is not intended for full process sandboxing, and Sun et al. [88] have
underscored its security limitations, which is susceptible to several potential “escape” attacks. In
contrast, TrEnv-X still adopts the mount namespace as standard containers, which provides more
robust isolation.
Compared with Zygote Container. Prior research, such as Pagurus [66], suggests a “zygote” container
that can help various functions. In Pagurus, each function-specific directory is assigned a unique

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
TrEnv-X : Transparently Share Serverless Execution Environments Across Different Functions and Nodes                  19


owner, and the user ID of the function process is dynamically adjusted to access the corresponding
directory. However, it merely provides read-only access, a limitation also found in lightweight
containers. TrEnv-X, conversely, leverages the copy-on-write feature of overlayfs to emulate an
ideal single-tenant environment with no restrictions on writable paths. While zygote containers
improve the hit ratio of idle containers compared with conventional caching strategies, one zygote
can only help certain types of functions with similar dependencies and the same language. TrEnv-X,
on the other hand, supports seamless transitions to arbitrary functions, even in different languages.
Moreover, zygote containers require additional initialization steps when helping other functions,
such as loading unique libraries and user codes, leading to longer latency than TrEnv-X.

5.2.2 New Cgroup Feature Utilization. As discussed in §4.1, cgroup migration suffers from signifi-
cant latency. To understand the root cause of this latency, we employed ftrace [26] to analyze the
call graph in Linux during cgroup migration. Our analysis reveals that the involvement of two
global read-write semaphores in the critical path, as shown in Figure 14, is the main cause. The
underlying RCU (Read-Copy Update) synchronization, integral to semaphore implementation, is
inherently time-consuming as it necessitates waiting for a grace period to ensure successful write
locking.


                                                      cgroup_threadgroup_rwsem
                                                                                      > 10ms

                                 cgroup_procs_write_start   cgroup_attach_lock   synchronize_rcu
                    Migrate
                                     cgroup_attach_task     cpuset_can_attach    synchronize_rcu

                                                                                      > 10ms
                                                              cpuset_rwsem


                                  Fig. 14. Call graph of the cgroup migration.


   TrEnv-X employs the CLONE_INTO_CGROUP feature, a recent Linux enhancement for task creation.
It significantly speeds up the procedure by assigning a specific cgroup to a process at the time of
spawning, rather than post-creation. Now the workflow in TrEnv-X is: (1) create the cgroup and
(2) assign the cgroup directly while spawning container processes. Since the process is still invisible
to other OS components while spawning, the kernel can bypass the costly synchronization in
cgroup migration. Despite its efficiency, this feature has yet to be adopted in mainstream container
runtimes (e.g., runc). In our evaluation, it typically takes only 100 to 300 µs.

6   Extending the Design to VM-Based Agent Execution
Building on the techniques introduced in the previous section, we further extend TrEnv-X to support
VM-based serverless platforms, the dominant model in public clouds. To evaluate the extended
system, we take LLM agents as a representative example of emerging serverless workloads.
   Our implementation targets KVM-based microVMs, where each hypervisor runs as a host process
isolated by Linux namespaces and cgroups. As with containers, TrEnv-X still maintains a pool of
repurposable sandboxes that can be recycled across hypervisors, minimizing the corresponding cre-
ation overheads. Nevertheless, the intricate execution patterns and substantial memory demands of
LLM agents introduce challenges that extend beyond the scope of container-oriented optimizations,
motivating the system enhancements detailed in the following subsections.

                                                                 , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
20                                                                                             Jialiang et al.



                                      Host Process
                                                           VM (guest)
                                      Mapping
                                                                         IO

                                                       Shared Memory      virtiofsd
                                   Virtqueue
                                    (virtio)
                                                                        Unix Socket
                                                             VMM
                                                                        (vhost-user)



                   Fig. 15. The architecture of virtiofs. VMM means virtual machine monitor.



6.1    Challenge of Agents on VM-based Platforms
As discussed in §3.4, two primary obstacles hinder cost-efficient serverless execution for agents:
low CPU utilization and redundant page cache across guest and host kernels. A common strategy
to address low CPU utilization is CPU overcommitment [16], which consolidates multiple VMs
onto the same set of physical cores. However, overcommitment introduces two key challenges.
   First, it increases the end-to-end execution latency of agents, particularly for complex agents that
rely on browsers. Although the average CPU utilization is low (e.g., only 7% for “Game design”),
the CPU demand can exhibit significant short-term spikes (e.g., exceeding 40% for “Game design”).
Overcommitment exacerbates resource contention among co-located instances. For example, when
200 instances of the “Game design” agent are scheduled on 20 physical cores, the average execution
latency increases by 25% (from 107 seconds to 134 seconds).
   Second, overcommitment amplifies the impact of redundant page caches. As the number of
concurrently running VMs increases, so does the degree of memory redundancy. Recent hypervi-
sors [65] employ virtiofs [12], a shared virtualized filesystem, to mitigate this issue. However, we
find virtiofs challenging to integrate with our mm-template. As illustrated in Figure 15, the virtiofs
delegates guest file operations to a separate userspace daemon called virtiofsd. This architectural
decision is explicitly made to enhance security, preventing a compromised guest from exploiting
shared file system interfaces to attack the host. About its data plane, the virtiofsd must access
the descriptors in the virtqueue and buffers in the guest memory to serve I/O requests. To ensure
performance, the VMM shares the guest memory with virtiofsd rather than copying data between
each other. Unfortunately, this memory sharing model is fundamentally incompatible with our
design, which relies on private memory mappings to enable safe copy-on-write semantics across
instances.

6.2    Browser Sharing
To mitigate the execution time overhead introduced by overcommitment, TrEnv-X amortizes
resource usage across multiple agents. Many complex agents rely on web browsers to render
content or interact with websites. However, browsers are inherently memory- and CPU-intensive,
often spawning multiple processes and some agents even needs graphic display (i.e., headed
browsers). Following the same sharing principle underlying TrEnv-X’s design, we extend resource
sharing to include browser instances. TrEnv-X allows multiple agents (e.g., ten) to concurrently
share a single browser instance, with each agent operating within its own set of tabs.
   Technically, most agents interact with browsers via automation frameworks such as Play-
wright [10], which expose browser operations through language-specific APIs (e.g., Python or

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
TrEnv-X : Transparently Share Serverless Execution Environments Across Different Functions and Nodes                  21


JavaScript). Taking Chromium as an example, these tools communicate with the browser through
the Chrome DevTools Protocol (CDP) over WebSocket, sending commands such as opening a new
webpage. When CDP is enabled, the browser exposes a WebSocket endpoint that supports multiple
concurrent clients. TrEnv-X launches several browser instances in separate sandboxes and enables
multiple agents to connect to the same instance through a shared CDP endpoint. Because CDP is
widely supported, this integration is straightforward. For instance, the Browser-Use framework
employed by our “Shop Assistant” agent (Table 2) already allows users to specify a CDP endpoint.
Since many browser components, such as network and storage subprocesses, can be multiplexed
internally, this design reduces redundant resource consumption and alleviates CPU contention
among co-located microVMs. In the current implementation, we focus on scenarios where agents do
not process sensitive user data. Therefore, we do not impose additional security isolation between
agent connections sharing a browser instance. Security implications are discussed further in §8.1.2.

6.3    Page Cache Mitigation
To address the issue of page cache duplication, we reexamine the storage architecture. As discussed
in §6.1, the virtiofs-based design in RunD is incompatible with copy-on-write memory sharing on
CXL. TrEnv-X employs the same block device model as Firecracker, allowing storage emulation to
be integrated within the hypervisor itself and removing the need for shared memory. To bypass
the guest page cache, we use the virtio-pmem device, a virtualized, byte-addressable persistent
memory. However, simply assigning a dedicated virtio-pmem device to each VM introduces two
drawbacks. First, each device occupies substantial host storage (typically tens of gigabytes), as it
must store the full VM filesystem. Second, since Linux maintains the page cache at the file level,
identical files across different devices result in duplicated host page caches.

                                                                       Guest
                                                                                     Read-only
                                  Union Filesystem (e.g., OverlayFS)
                                                                                     Writable

                            virtio-pmem-1    virtio-pmem-2     Page Cache            Host

                                                                                     Guest
                                                                writable-blk
                             Page Cache       Page Cache

                                                                writable-file
                            base-file-1      base-file-2
                                                                        Host


                           Fig. 16. The method to mitigate duplicated page cache.

   To overcome this, TrEnv-X employs a union filesystem strategy, illustrated in Figure 16. Each
VM is provisioned with two types of storage devices: a read-only base device containing shared
files (e.g., libc, browsers), and a writable device for recording per-VM file modifications. The base
device is shared among all VMs and mapped as a read-only virtio-pmem device, ensuring a single
copy is cached in the host and bypassing the guest page cache. The writable device is exclusive to
each VM and opened with the O_DIRECT flag in the hypervisor, thereby avoiding host page cache
duplication. These two types of devices are combined using a union filesystem (e.g., overlayfs)
within the guest, enabling efficient storage isolation and compatibility with the copy-on-write.

7     Implementation
We have implemented the mm-template mechanism in TrEnv-X based on Linux v6.1, with support
for both CXL and RDMA memory pools. The functionality is exposed to users via a pseudo-device

                                                                 , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
22                                                                                          Jialiang et al.


under /dev, using a set of ioctl interfaces as illustrated in Figure 11. Each mm-template is assigned
a unique identifier upon creation, which must be provided for subsequent operations. Internally, all
templates are managed using an XArray, indexed by their identifiers. The implementation consists
of approximately 3,500 lines of code (LoC) modifications to the kernel and 700 lines for the RDMA
memory server.
   To optimize existing checkpoint/restore (C/R) workflows, TrEnv-X introduces both mm-template
and repurposable sandbox mechanisms into CRIU. Rather than reconstructing the mount namespace
and cgroup from scratch, TrEnv-X enables joining the existing environment within its sandbox pool.
The memory remapping and data copy typically involved in CRIU restore operations are replaced
by the efficient mmt_attach call. Furthermore, we extend CRIU to support the transformation of
traditional CRIU checkpoints into mm-templates. This integration involves approximately 2,900
LoC modifications to CRIU.
   TrEnv-X integrates CRIU with faasd [75], a widely-used serverless computing platform, to
support container-based function execution. The management of sandbox pools, function-specific
overlayfs, and cgroups is delegated to the serverless platform, which possesses sufficient application-
level context. For function scheduling, TrEnv-X adopts a simple yet effective policy: if available
sandboxes exist in the pool, new function instances are launched via repurposing; otherwise,
TrEnv-X falls back to cold start or vanilla CRIU-based startup.
   We also extend TrEnv-X to support a VM-based agent execution platform, enabling both light-
weight agents for rapid startup and complex agents for high-density workloads. Our survey revealed
a lack of open-source microVMs meeting all of TrEnv-X’s requirements. Specifically, efficient C/R
support is often missing, e.g., Kata Containers lacks native C/R support for microVMs, and gVisor
requires costly memory copying. Moreover, support for DAX (Direct Access) to bypass the guest
page cache is essential, which is not supported in Firecracker. Although DAX feature is standardized
in the virtiofs specification, its official implementation [11] has removed support due to instability
in the memory mapping command within the vhost-user protocol. To address these limitations, we
enhance Cloud Hypervisor (CH) to satisfy all requirements. While CH supports virtio-pmem, its
default restore mechanism relies on full memory copies. Inspired by the mm-template design, we
extend CH to restore memory state via mmap from either a modified DAX device or a regular memory
image file. The VM-based platform implementation consists of 6,000 LoC, with CH enhancements
requiring an additional 100 lines.

8     Discussion
In this section, we further discuss the security and deployment costs of TrEnv-X.
   (1) Security: TrEnv-X involves reusing or repurposing certain container components, as outlined
       in Table 1. It is essential to assess the extent to which this reuse may introduce potential
       security vulnerabilities.
   (2) Deployment Costs: TrEnv-X optimizes memory restoration and utilization by leveraging
       emerging hardware technologies (e.g., CXL and RDMA). This approach presents a tradeoff
       between the benefits gained and the additional deployment costs incurred.

8.1    Security
The mm-template API is implemented through a set of ioctl calls on a pseudo-device driver. To
ensure its usage is controlled, only users with root privileges can access that device. For repurposable
sandboxes, the design aims to provide a level of security and isolation that is equivalent to or exceeds
that of existing container-based systems. In the following, we examine the security implications
associated with the reused kernel objects (i.e., container components). We then analyze other
security limitations inherent in the current implementation of TrEnv-X.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
TrEnv-X : Transparently Share Serverless Execution Environments Across Different Functions and Nodes                  23


8.1.1 Reused Kernel Objects.
Network namespace (netns). Lightweight containers (e.g., used in Mitosis [98]) do not employ
netns, leading all instances to share the same network environment. In contrast, TrEnv-X assigns
a separate netns to each instance. During repurposing, the previously opened network connections
will be forcibly terminated to prevent data leakage. However, certain states, including the network
configurations (e.g., firewall rules and routing tables) and statistics (e.g., received bytes of the
veth interfaces), are preserved. Many serverless functions, including all evaluated in our study, do
not modify network configurations. Therefore, these residual states do not expose data generated
during function execution. For other functions that customize the network or ask for extreme
security, we need fallback to create absolutely clean network environment from scratch as usual.
Rootfs. Each rootfs contains a mount namespace and a union filesystem. Its security implications
has been discussed in §5.2.1. During repurposing, TrEnv-X first kills the processes, and then purges
the file modifications of the previous instance. Thus, TrEnv-X does not leak any data, including
memory or files, produced by the processing of the last function.
Cgroup. The reuse of cgroup is confirmed and adopted by production systems like Rund [65]. Still,
TrEnv-X provides a cgroup per instance, as standard Docker containers.
   A “share” strategy has been proposed by Pagurus [66]. A pool of zygote containers is maintained
to mitigate cold start overhead. Nevertheless, all child containers forked from the same zygote
container share the isolated components (e.g., rootfs and netns), resulting in poorer isolation
compared with TrEnv-X.

8.1.2 Security Limitations. Although TrEnv-X prevents data leakage and enforces the proper level
of isolation during repurposing, there are other potential security limitations.
   (1) ASLR (Address Space Layout Randomization). In TrEnv-X, all restored container instances
       share the same memory layout (e.g., the virtual address of the stack) as the mm-template they
       are attached during restoring, preventing ASLR from introducing randomness. This issue
       is prevalent in all Checkpoint/Restore and fork-based schemes, where restored or forked
       containers inherit the virtual address layout of the snapshot or parent process.
   (2) Side-channel attacks related to memory deduplication across functions [102]. A possible
       solution is to only enable it for functions from the same users.
   (3) Unintentional data sharing (e.g., cookies) among browser-sharing agents. A possible solution
       is integrating advanced isolation mechanisms of modern browsers, like Firefox Containers [9],
       which provide privacy separation between tabs within a single browser instance.
   (4) Data protection during transfer. For CXL, the 2.0 specification propose security features, such
       as IDE (Integrity and Data Encryption). For RDMA, it is possible to encrypt the memory
       images during transfers.

8.2   Deployment Cost
For RDMA-based deployment, there is no additional cost since cloud providers already offer RDMA
devices (e.g., eRD-MA [29], EFA [108]) in production. For CXL-based deployment, a quantitative cost
analysis is currently not feasible because CXL 2.0 switches are still in the demo phase. However, we
are confirmed from manufacturers that memory expanders’ and switches’ price will be comparable
to DDR5 DIMMs and IB switches, respectively. Previous works [24] showed that the cost of switches
and multi-headed memory controllers are within 5% of the original servers, at the scale of 16 sockets.
Thus, we anticipate rack-level deployment of CXL memory pools will be available at an acceptable
cost in the near future, motivating our work. A rack-level mini-cluster with around 10 machines
and 20TB memory would be sufficient to capitalize on the benefits of TrEnv-X.

                                                                 , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
24                                                                                           Jialiang et al.


   Regarding the energy cost for occupying DRAM and the comparison with pre-warm/keep-alive
approaches, TrEnv-X reduces the overall memory footprint by enabling cross-machine-intra-rack
deduplication. Only one copy is needed per rack if it is read-only, reducing the cost by a factor
of the number of machines (~10). In contrast, each kept-warm container requires an independent
copy, leading to excessive duplication and memory costs. For larger clusters, it is possible to blend
CXL (intra-rack) and RDMA (inter-rack), by adjusting the mm-template, to further enhance the
scalability.

9     Evaluations
In this section, we present the experimental evaluation of TrEnv-X. §9.1 to §9.5 focus on container-
based platforms, assessing the effectiveness of repurposable sandboxes and mm-template. §9.6
extends the evaluation to VM-based agent platforms, highlighting TrEnv-X’s enhancements for
browser sharing and mitigation of duplicated page cache.

9.1    Methodology
Testbed. We conducted evaluations of TrEnv-X using memory pools based on both CXL and
RDMA technologies, termed T-CXL and T-RDMA in the following sections, respectively. The test
platform was equipped with dual 32-core Intel Xeon Gold 6454S CPUs, 256 GB of RAM, and a 7 TB
Samsung PM9A3 SSD. Additionally, the platform was connected to a 128 GB experimental Samsung
CXL memory device and a Soft-RoCE RDMA device. In our tests, the latency for accessing remote
memory was 641.1 ms for CXL and 6 µs for RDMA.
Evaluated Functions. Our method is universally applicable across diverse language runtimes
and is able to handle multi-threaded and multi-process scenarios. Thus, for our evaluation, we
selected a wide range of applications from SeBS [34] and Function-Bench [60] (Table 4). Given
the prevalent use of Node.js and Python by AWS Lambda developers[37], we also ported several
Python (Py) functions to Node.js (Node). This further highlights TrEnv-X’s ability to repurpose
between heterogeneous languages.
Baselines. TrEnv-X is based on faasd, a widely used serverless platform that not only provides a
baseline for our comparative analysis but also supports CRIU natively.
   Additionally, the current predominant approach to mitigating cold start issues in serverless
computing is “lazy restoration”, which prioritizes the recovery of essential states and delays other
tasks (e.g., memory content restoration) until necessary. Thus, we also compare TrEnv-X with


 Table 4. The evaluated functions. The last column shows the number of threads that need to be restored.


 Func       Lang           Description                               Mem Size         # Thread
 DH         Python         Dynamic web pages generating.             50.4 M           14
 JS         Python         Deserialize and serialize json.           94.9 M           14
 PR         Python         Pagrank algorithm.                        116 M            395
 IR         Python         Deep learning (ResNet).                   855 M            141
 IP         Python         Image rotating and flipping.              67.1 M           15
 VP         Python         Gray-scale effect on video.               324 M            204
 CH         Python         HTML tables rendering.                    94.9 M           38
 CR         Nodejs         AES encryption algorithm.                 124 M            16
 JJS        Nodejs         Similar to JS.                            111 M            21
 IFR        Nodejs         Similar to IP.                            253 M            21


, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
TrEnv-X : Transparently Share Serverless Execution Environments Across Different Functions and Nodes                  25


REAP and FaaSnap, two state-of-the-art lazy restoration methods that utilize Firecracker. Notably,
FaaSnap builds on top of REAP by introducing an asynchronous prefetch policy. Each guest for
FaaSnap and REAP has 2 vCPUs and 2 GB memory.
   During our evaluation, we noted that the network configuration phase during Firecracker
initialization introduces significant overhead, which can reach up to 600 ms under scenarios of
high load and concurrency. This overhead allows TrEnv-X to outperform them substantially. To
facilitate a more meaningful comparison, we developed a network namespace pool for both REAP
and FaaSnap. After a VM is terminated, its network environment is recycled into this pool for later
reuse, analogous to our repurposable sandbox pool. We refer to these enhanced implementations
as REAP+ and FaaSnap+, respectively.
Schedule Policy. We implement a widely used scheduling policy across all evaluated methods.
After the invocation, instances are retained in a container pool for a fixed duration (e.g., 10 minutes)
akin to Openwhisk [3], commonly referred to as keep-alive. This approach allows for the immediate
reutilization of cached instances for new invocations of the same function. The container pool
works as a Least Recently Used (LRU) list, organized by the most recent activity.
Workloads. We assessed the performance of TrEnv-X using both synthetic and real-world work-
load traces. Specifically, bursty loads and diurnal patterns are the two most commonly observed
patterns in real-world serverless platforms that lead to load instability and thus diminish the effec-
tiveness of the keep-alive strategy [45, 66, 79, 82, 86, 95]. To accurately simulate these conditions, we
designed two specific workloads: W1 and W2. W1 replicates bursty traffic patterns, with intervals
between consecutive bursts longer than the keep-alive threshold. In contrast, W2 emulates diurnal
traffic fluctuations, cycling through various functions under tight memory limits (a soft memory
cap of 32GB is applied in W2, compared to the 64GB used in other tests). To further substantiate
TrEnv-X’s utility in practical scenarios, we also incorporated industry traces from Azure [82] and
Huawei [59] into our evaluations.
   To ensure the effectiveness of traditional caching mechanisms, all tests include a warm-up phase
of about 5 minutes. Additionally, snapshot images of CRIU, REAP, and FaaSnap are stored on a
CXL-memory-backed tmpfs to eliminate disk overhead, ensuring a fair comparison with T-CXL.
   In the following evaluation, we focus on the following aspects.
   (1) Performance (§9.2, §9.3, §9.6.1, §9.6.2): What is the benefit of TrEnv-X on end-to-end latency,
       especially under concurrency and the P99 latency?
   (2) Memory utilization (§9.2, §9.3, §9.6.3): What is the benefit of TrEnv-X on the reduction of
       memory usage?
   (3) Optimization Breakdown (§9.4): What is the contribution of each optimization proposed
       by TrEnv-X?
   (4) Memory Pool Comparison (§9.5): What is the difference between CXL and RDMA memory
       pool?

9.2   Representative Workload
Figure 17 displays the cumulative distribution function (CDF) of end-to-end (E2E) latency for
functions within the W1 and W2 workloads, capturing over 4k invocations in 30 minutes. For
clarity, the x-axis shows the logarithmic scale (base 2) latency, and the results for CRIU and faasd
are partially truncated due to their relatively longer latencies.
   As a summary, in terms of tail latency, T-CXL consistently outperforms all other solutions,
achieving a speedup ranging from 1.11×-5.69× (1.17×-18×) for P99 latency and up to 5.9× (8.6×)
for median latency, compared with REAP+ (FaaSnap+). The superior performance primarily stems
from T-CXL’s reduced execution time, as FaaSnap+ and REAP+ incur more context switches and

                                                                 , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
26                                                                                                                                                           Jialiang et al.


                      T-CXL                        T-RDMA                      FaaSnap+                   REAP+                       CRIU           faasd
                      DH                                 JJS                                     JS                                 IFR                      PR
       100%

       50%

        0%
 CDF




                23          26                      26        27          28           26         27           28         210            212          29     210     211
                      IR                                      IP                                 CH                                 CR                       VP
       100%

       50%

        0%
               26               28               1.6 × 210          211                    29          210          28          29             210            211

                      (a) W1: bursty loads with intervals longer than the keep-alive threshold.
                     DH                                      JJS                                 JS                             IFR                          PR
      100%

       50%

       0%
               23          26                       26       27          28           26          27         28          210         212              29       210         211
CDF




                     IR                                      IP                                 CH                                  CR                       VP
      100%

       50%

       0%
                     27                       29 1.6 × 210         211                     29            210                   29          210       211             212

                                            (b) W2: diurnal and heavy traffic under tight memory limits.

Fig. 17. CDF of different functions’ E2E latency under two representative workloads, W1 and W2. The vertical
dotted line indicates the P99 E2E latency. Note that x-axis denotes the E2E latency in milliseconds on a
logarithmic scale with a base of 2.


                                                                  T-CXL                     FaaSnap+                     CRIU
                                                                  T-RDMA                    REAP+                        faasd
                            Mem Usage(GB)




                                            40
                                                                                                             20
                                            20
                                                                                                             10

                                             0                                                                 0
                                                   W1               W2              Azure       Huawei                    IR             IFR
                                                                              (a)                                               (b)

Fig. 18. (a) Peak memory usage during four workload tests. (b) The memory usage when starting 50 instances
of IR and IFR, respectively.



on-demand restoration overheads, particularly under conditions of high concurrency. T-RDMA
also shows promising performance; however, it does not perform as well in certain scenarios due
to the higher latency associated with RDMA access compared to the CXL-backed tmpfs used in
REAP+ and FaaSnap+.
   Regarding memory utilization, as detailed in Figure 18a, T-CXL achieves an average reduction
in memory usage relative to faasd, CRIU, REAP+, and FaaSnap+ in W1 and W2 by 37.4%, 61.2%,
58.2%, and 51.5%, respectively. T-RDMA exhibits a comparable level of memory savings. These
improvements are attributed to memory sharing, deduplication, and reduced number of instances
to keep in memory, thanks to our repurposing technique that allows for the effective share of
execution environments across various functions.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
TrEnv-X : Transparently Share Serverless Execution Environments Across Different Functions and Nodes                    27


                                            T-CXL            FaaSnap+              REAP+
                                1.50
                                1.25
                                 1.0
                      Latency
                                 0.5


                                 0.0
                                       DH   JJS   JS   IFR   PR   IR   IP    CH    CR    VP

Fig. 19. Normalized E2E latency without concurrency, while the hatched region denotes the startup time.



9.2.1 Comparing with CRIU and faasd. The suboptimal performance of CRIU and faasd stems
from their high startup latency. As given in Table 1, creating isolation environments can take over
one second under conditions of heavy loads and high concurrency. Additionally, faasd encounters
delays due to application initialization during cold starts, whereas CRIU’s restoration process is
hampered by the expensive copy-based memory restoration. For instance, launching a CR instance
takes 1.7 s at P99, whereas its execution time is only about 500 ms. Thanks to our repurposable
sandboxes and mm-templates, TrEnv-X significantly reduces the costs associated with isolation
environment creation and memory restoration. It takes merely 15 milliseconds for T-CXL to start
the same CR instance at P99, representing a reduction of more than 100×. In §9.4, we will explore
the individual contributions of the repurposing and mm-template techniques.
   T-CXL relies on CXL, which has higher latency than local DRAM, resulting in degraded execution
performance. This explains CRIU’s better P50 IR performance in Fig 17. For instance, T-CXL nearly
doubles the execution time of DH and IR due to their short runtimes (<100 ms), while other
functions see about a 10% increase on average. However, during cold starts, T-CXL’s E2E latency is
significantly lower than CRIU’s, thanks to its efficient startup process. Additionally, performance
can be improved by configuring mm-templates to store hot regions of memory image in local
DRAM.

9.2.2 Comparing with REAP+ and FaaSnap+. Both REAP+ and FaaSnap+ are based on Firecracker.
While the primary focus is on enhancing security, the additional layer of the hypervisor facilitates
efficient state restoration. Despite the reduced gap, TrEnv-X, which is container-based, still achieves
better start latency. For example, it takes only 13 ms to start an instance of CH at P99, compared
to 49 (90) ms for FaaSnap+ (REAP+). Moreover, Firecracker leads to significantly higher memory
consumption (as shown in Figure 18a) than containers, due to each guest OS maintaining exclusive
resources, such as page caches. A microbenchmark, illustrated in Figure 18b, further highlights this
issue. When starting 50 function instances, we observed that FaaSnap and REAP even doubled the
memory usage compared to T-CXL.
   In addition to startup latency, TrEnv-X achieves lower tail latency than both REAP+ and
FaaSnap+ due to its much more stable and shorter execution time. REAP and FaaSnap use a lazy
restore approach that only delays, rather than eliminates, restoration overheads during execution,
especially for memory. For instance, handling each page fault still requires several microseconds by
the OS, even when their snapshots are stored on a CXL-based tmpfs. In contrast, TrEnv-X eagerly
restores most states instead of on-demand, such as opened files. Further, by leveraging CXL’s byte
addressability, mm-template avoids page faults for read-only pages. According to our investigations,
about 24% to 90% of the pages used during execution are read-only. Thus, as illustrated in Figure
19, the execution time for TrEnv-X is considerably shorter than that for REAP+ and FaaSnap+.

                                                                   , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
28                                                                                                                       Jialiang et al.


                                                        T-CXL                  FaaSnap+                   CRIU
                                                        T-RDMA                 REAP+                      faasd
                                                 7.00   3.50   3.02   2.44    2.21   2.08   1.39   1.18    1.17   1.06
                      P99 E2E Latency      4.0
                                           2.5
                                           1.2
                                           1.0

                                           0.5

                                           0.0
                                                 DH     JJS    JS     IFR     PR     IR     IP     CH      CR     VP

                                                                    (a) Azure workload
                                                 3.47   5.20   3.38    2.64   2.21   2.01   1.41   1.15   1.19    1.20
                                           4.0
                         P99 E2E Latency




                                           2.5
                                           1.2
                                           1.0

                                           0.5

                                           0.0
                                                 DH     JJS    JS     IFR     PR     IR     IP     CH     CR      VP

                                                                    (b) Huawei workload

Fig. 20. P99 E2E latency for read-world workloads, normalized against REAP latency. Each bar is divided into
two segments: the upper un-hatched represents execution time, and the lower hatched indicates startup time.
Top numbers are the speedup of T-CXL compared to REAP+.


9.2.3 The effect of function characteristics. Different applications exhibit distinct characteristics
that influence their performance. The functions we evaluated can be categorized into three groups.
   (1) Memory-insensitive applications, such as compute-intensive (like VP and IP) and I/O-intensive
       (like CH) applications. The latency for these applications does not show a significant dispar-
       ity among different methods, as they are primarily CPU-bound or I/O-bound rather than
       memory-bound. As a result, the differences in E2E latency between CXL, RDMA, and even
       userfaultfd-based page faults (used in REAP) are not evident.
   (2) Applications with a large memory footprint and complex memory access patterns, including
       IR, PR, and IFR. They lead to more minor page faults in REAP+ and FaaSnap+, resulting
       in longer execution time than T-CXL. T-RDMA can also experiences longer tail latency,
       especially during burst, due to unstable P99 latency of RDMA under high request rates.
   (3) Applications with brief execution time, which is common in serverless scenarios, including
       DH, JS, CR and JJS. Any extra overhead, such as minor page faults in FaaSnap or REAP, and
       longer latency for RDMA, significantly impacts their E2E latency. The shorter startup latency
       and zero cost for read accesses in T-CXL demonstrate more pronounced effects for these
       functions.

9.3    Real-world Workload
To further justify the effectiveness of our designs, we tested TrEnv-X under two industrial and
complex workloads (Figure 20). As both datasets only record the number of invocations per minute,
we randomly distributed those within each minute, with a probability of creating skew or bursty
loads to imitate real-world conditions.
   In summary, for tail latency, T-CXL achieves speedups ranging from 1.06×-7.00× and 1.16×-
9.25× compared with REAP+ and FaaSnap+, due to our shorter execution time under heavy loads.
T-RDMA falls behind REAP+ and FaaSnap+ in JS, VP, CH, CR, and PR. The unstable P99 memory
access latency of RDMA still incurs a delay in these heavy-load scenarios. Nevertheless, T-RDMA

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
TrEnv-X : Transparently Share Serverless Execution Environments Across Different Functions and Nodes                                           29


                                                         FaaSnap+                 Startup           Exec
                                           1846                                          489 399
                                    1500                                           350
                                                  626                                                179 166

                     Latency (ms)
                                     500                410
                                                              361                                                123 109
                                                                                   100
                                     250                            180
                                                                          117
                                       0                                             0
                                              sd CRIU       ig    p     A     L             sd CRIU       ig    p     A     L
                                           faa           onf Cgrou T-RDM T-CX            faa           onf Cgrou T-RDM T-CX
                                                     Rec                                           Rec
                                                         (a) IR                                        (b) JS

Fig. 21. Optimization steps and its effects to E2E latency. The green line indicates the E2E latency of FaaSnap+.


still achieves a speedup of 1.29×-4.28× and 1.11×-4.64× against REAP+ and FaaSnap+ for other
functions. As shown in Figure 18, T-CXL and T-RDMA reduce memory usage by over 25% compared
to all baselines in both workloads. Specifically, T-CXL reduces memory usage by up to 49% relative
to REAP+ and FaaSnap+. T-RDMA consumes, on average, 10% more memory than T-CXL.

9.4   Breakdown of Optimization Steps
To delve deeper into the contribution of each optimization, we analyzed the E2E latency by enabling
different optimizations in TrEnv-X step by step.
   In Figure 21, the “Reconfig” optimization applies sandbox repurposing without cgroup optimiza-
tion, reducing startup latency by approximately 200 ms. Regarding rootfs reconfiguration, one
subtask of the repurpose, it takes more than 30 ms to restore the rootfs and mount namespace in
CRIU. In contrast, TrEnv-X’s reconfiguration process involves only two system calls and typically
completes rootfs preparation in less than 1 ms. Additionally, the “Cgroup” optimization employs the
CLONE_INTO_CGROUP to bypass synchronization delays within the kernel, further reducing startup
latency by 49 ms for IR and 13 ms for JS.
   After that, the function’s startup latency is predominantly governed by memory restoration
(>85%). TrEnv-X reduces this cost through mm-template. First, it only needs to copy a small amount
of metadata rather than the memory pages. For example, the metadata is less than 400 KB, while the
memory contents exceed 70 MB for JS. Second, it eliminates the need for reconstructing the virtual
memory layout since it is already preserved in the mm-template, thus avoiding numerous mmap()
system calls in CRIU. The larger the memory footprint, the greater the reduction in startup latency
achieved by mm-template. The mm-template alone reduces startup latency by 290 ms for IR and 67
ms for JS, allowing TrEnv-X to launch an IR and JS instance in just 18 ms and 8 ms, respectively.
   Utilizing the mm-template with a remote memory pool leads to a slight increase in execution
time compared to when local DRAM is used, because of the inherently longer access latencies
associated with CXL and RDMA memory. Specifically, an additional 24 ms (88 ms) for IR and 11 ms
(25 ms) for JS, are observed for T-CXL (T-RDMA), compared to CRIU. Nonetheless, the overall E2E
latency still experiences a substantial reduction.
   We also evaluated the “Cgroup” (i.e., enable repurposable sandboxes but without mm-template)
with industrial workloads: T-CXL still outperforms “Cgroup” in all functions, achieving the speedup
ranging from 1.04× to 2.32×.

9.5   TrEnv-X-CXL vs. TrEnv-X-RDMA
The flexibility of TrEnv-X enables it to leverage various interconnect technologies. However,
the differing physical characteristics of CXL and RDMA lead to disparities in execution time. As
shown in Figure 22, T-CXL outperforms T-RDMA across all functions, with speed increases ranging
from 1.04× to 3.51× for P75 latency. This improvement is attributed to (1) the faster access latency

                                                                                          , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
30                                                                                                   Jialiang et al.


                                                     CXL-75        RDMA-75        CXL-99   RDMA-99
                                               3




                          Execution Latency
                                                2
                                              1.5

                                              1.0

                                              0.5

                                              0.0
                                                    DH JJS    JS   IFR PR    IR    IP   CH CR VP

Fig. 22. Normalized execution latency of T-CXL and T-RDMA. The hatched bar indicates P75 latency, while
the un-hatched bar indicates P99 latency.




of CXL memory, and (2) the utilization of CXL’s byte-addressable feature. The zero additional
software-level cost for read accesses with mm-templates allows T-CXL to eliminate page faults
that T-RDMA encounters for read-only pages. Analysis of our evaluated functions reveals that a
significant portion of the memory pages are read-only, ranging from 24% to 90%.
   Furthermore, the disparity in P99 latency between T-CXL and T-RDMA is even more pronounced
than at P75. Under extreme loads at P99, the heavy RDMA traffic exacerbates CPU load and flow
interference, and increases contention for network resources such as the switch [107] and RDMA
NIC [32]. Several works report similar observations, with this performance cliff being nearly fivefold
in instances of burst traffic [61]. In contrast, CXL memory offers higher IOPS and more stable
latency at P99. CPU usage monitored during two industrial tests with mpstat shows that T-RDMA’s
total CPU usage is 1.24× and 1.23× higher than T-CXL for Azure and Huawei traces, respectively.
   Figure 18b also demonstrates that for read-heavy functions like IR, T-CXL primarily accesses
remote memory directly, avoiding the allocation of local pages. It substantially saves memory
(43.5%) compared to T-RDMA. Conversely, for write-heavy functions like IFR, T-CXL shows lesser
memory gains (13%) as both trigger COW for write access.
   Nonetheless, since all states in the memory pool are read-only, a multi-layered architecture that
strategically places hot pages in CXL and cold pages in RDMA, integrates seamlessly with our
approach. The specific cache eviction strategies are orthogonal to our core implementation.

9.6    The Enhancement of TrEnv-X over VM-based Agent Platform
Evaluated Agents. We evaluate a set of representative agents listed in Table 2, covering both
lightweight and complex designs. Agent execution exhibits substantial non-determinism. First,
identical user inputs may yield different execution paths due to the inherent randomness of LLM
outputs. Second, runtime variability in the LLM inference backend may impact execution latency. To
ensure fair and reproducible evaluation, we collect execution traces from real LLM runs, including
the exact outputs and corresponding response times. During benchmarking, agents interact with
a simulated inference server that replays the recorded outputs and enforces the same response
latency. This methodology ensures deterministic execution across repeated runs, enabling reliable
comparisons.
Configurations. The first three agents in Table 2 (i.e., Blackjack, Bug Fixer, and MapReduce) are
deployed in VMs provisioned with 1 vCPU, 2 GB of memory, and 5 GB of storage. The remaining
agents, which rely on a browser runtime, are allocated 4 GB of memory, with other configurations
remaining the same. To evaluate TrEnv-X’s optimization effectiveness under overcommitment, we
concurrently launch 200 agent instances across 20 physical cores in the following experiments.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
TrEnv-X : Transparently Share Serverless Execution Environments Across Different Functions and Nodes                                31


Baselines. To the best of our knowledge, there is no open-source cloud platform specifically
designed for serving LLM-based agents. A closely related paradigm is the code interpreter, where
code generated by an LLM is executed in an isolated environment, and the results are returned to
the agent. Representative platforms, such as E2B [41], commonly leverage microVMs to provide
strong isolation and predictable performance. We adopt E2B as our baseline system. Notably, E2B
already incorporates checkpoint/restore (C/R) techniques to reduce startup latency. To improve its
efficiency further, we enhance E2B with a key modification: the adoption of the root filesystem
(rootfs) mapping scheme from RunD. We refer to this enhanced version as E2B+ in the remainder
of the evaluation.
9.6.1 The Startup Efficiency for Agents. Lightweight agents, similar to traditional serverless func-
tions, have short execution durations and are therefore highly sensitive to startup latency. Figure 23
shows the startup latency of all agents listed in Table 2 across different systems. TrEnv-X reduces
startup latency by approximately 35% ∼ 49% compared to E2B and 36% ∼ 49% compared to E2B+,
demonstrating its effectiveness in minimizing launch overhead. This improvement is primarily
attributed to TrEnv-X’s efficient creation of isolated sandboxes. For instance, E2B introduces
considerable startup overhead, requiring roughly 15 ms for network environment setup and an
additional 10 ms for cgroup migration.
   To further assess the benefits of the mm-template mechanism in VM-based environments, we
also measure the startup latency of the vanilla Cloud Hypervisor (CH), which restores VM memory
states via full memory copying. This results in latencies ranging from 770 ms to 1700 ms. Agents
with larger memory footprints, such as “SA”, “BS”, and “GD”, which are equipped with double-sized
memory, require more time for CH to start up compared to other agents. In contrast, TrEnv-X
employs mm-template to restore memory using a single system call, avoiding full copying of
memory. Instead, memory pages are populated lazily at runtime. This design significantly reduces
memory restoration overhead and, in turn, startup latency, making TrEnv-X particularly well-suited
for lightweight agent workloads.
                                                      E2B        E2B+        TrEnv-X      CH
                                   2000
                                   1400
                                    800
                    Latency (ms)




                                     80
                                     60
                                     40
                                     20
                                      0
                                                  k           r                        t
                                          Blackjac    Bug fixe Map reduceShop assistanBlog summaryGame design

      Fig. 23. The startup latency of LLM agents in Table 2. CH means the vanilla Cloud Hypervisor.


9.6.2 Browser sharing. As described in §6.2, our first optimization, browser sharing, is designed to
mitigate performance degradation under CPU overcommitment. We evaluate this technique using
the last three agents listed in Table 2, as only these agents utilize a browser during execution. Figure
24 presents the results, where TrEnv-S denotes the TrEnv-X system augmented with browser
sharing. Browser sharing reduces the P99 and average end-to-end latencies by 2%–58% and 1%–26%,
respectively, depending on the agent. The performance gains vary significantly across agents. For
instance, the Game Design agent shows minimal improvement compared to the other two. As
shown in Table 2, this agent has a low CPU utilization of approximately 6%, indicating infrequent

                                                                               , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
  32                                                                                                                                                                             Jialiang et al.


             Baseline-1: 202.68                       TrEnv-X-S: 167.55                   Baseline-1: 301.77      TrEnv-X-S: 225.85              Baseline-1: 134.13         TrEnv-X-S: 126.96
             Baseline-2: 179.55                       TrEnv-X-w/o-S: 182.36               Baseline-2: 304.29      TrEnv-X-w/o-S: 293.71          Baseline-2: 132.42         TrEnv-X-w/o-S: 128.56
      100%                                                                         100%                                                   100%
      80%                                                                          80%                                                    80%
      60%                                                                          60%                                                    60%
CDF




                                                                             CDF
      40%                                                                          40%                                                    40%
      20%                                                                          20%                                                    20%
       0%                                                                           0%                                                     0%
        150 160 170 180 200                                            400                 200 220 240                300      400                 110      120       130       140      150

                  (a) Shop assistant.                                                          (b) Blog summary.                                       (c) Game design.

  Fig. 24. The CDF of different agents’ E2E latency. The x-axis denotes the E2E latency in seconds. The vertical
  dotted line indicates the P99 E2E latency, while numbers in the legend denotes average E2E latency.


                                                                                            E2B                E2B+           TrEnv-X
                                           Peak Mem Usage (GB)




                                                                 40                                             150
                                                                                                                100
                                                                 20
                                                                                                                 50
                                                                  0                                               0
                                                                      Blackjack Bug fixer Map reduce                         tant     mary     sign
                                                                                                                   Shop assis Blog sum Game de

                                                                      Fig. 25. The peak memory usages of different agents.


                                                                                              E2B              E2B+           TrEnv-X
                                  Memory usage (GB)




                                                      40
                                                                                                                 100
                                                      20

                                                           0                                                          0
                                                                 0     50 100 150 200 250 300                             0   50 100 150 200 250 300
                                                                            Map reduce                                            Shop assistant
                                                                                                    Time (seconds)

                     Fig. 26. The memory usage during execution of Map reduce and Blog summary agent.


  browser usage. As a result, the benefits of browser sharing have limited impact on its latency.
  In contrast, agents with more frequent browser interactions, such as Blog Summary, experience
  substantial performance improvements. In this case, browser sharing reduces the P99 latency by
  up to 58%, demonstrating the effectiveness of this optimization for browser-intensive workloads.
  9.6.3 Mitigation of duplicated page cache. To address the issue of duplicated page cache, TrEnv-X
  leverages the virtio-pmem device in combination with a union filesystem. This design allows
  multiple VMs to share common file contents in memory, reducing redundant caching across
  instances. As shown in Figure 25, TrEnv-X reduces peak memory usage by approximately 10%–61%
  compared to E2B, and up to 48% compared to E2B+. The extent of memory savings varies across
  agents, primarily depending on the proportion of file access during execution. For instance, agents

  , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
TrEnv-X : Transparently Share Serverless Execution Environments Across Different Functions and Nodes                  33


such as Blackjack and Bug Fixer perform minimal file I/O, resulting in limited memory optimization
benefits. In addition to peak memory usage, we also track memory utilization throughout the
agent’s execution, as illustrated in Figure 26. If memory cost is modeled as the product of usage and
duration, TrEnv-X achieves over 50% savings in overall memory cost, highlighting its effectiveness
in reducing resource consumption across time.



10   Related Work
Sandboxing techniques. Prior research has explored various sandboxing techniques like mi-
croVMs [13, 47, 65], lightweight containers [74], unikernels [28], and WebAssembly-based sand-
boxes [46, 84, 105]. The current implementation of TrEnv-X primarily focuses on containers and
microVMs.
Caching and pre-warm. Prior studies have sought to reduce the overhead of cold starts by employ-
ing caching or pre-warming techniques. After execution, the platform may keep the container alive
for a certain duration, reusing it if the same function is invoked again within that period. Besides,
the platform may pre-start containers for functions that are likely to be executed soon. Some
platforms utilize fixed keep-alive times or static pre-warm strategies [3, 97], while recent research
has explored heuristic approaches [45, 79, 82], including the use of machine learning models [100].
TrEnv-X takes a different approach by directly reducing cold start overhead, thereby eliminating
the need for designing those complex strategies. Groundhog [17], a lightweight sequential request
isolation system, restores memory to a “clean” state before reuse in its caching strategy. In contrast,
TrEnv-X focuses on mitigating cold start overhead by sharing resources across different functions
and hosts. Additionally, TrEnv-X is capable of providing functionality similar to Groundhog by
fully restoring the container state after each execution.
Utilization of “fork”. Several studies have investigated the use of the OS ‘fork’ primitive for
efficiently initiating new instances from a cached container or zygote [39, 40, 66, 74]. Moreover,
MITOSIS [98] enhances the OS by implementing a remote fork primitive that enables the use of
states from remote machines. While TrEnv-X shares some similarities with MITOSIS, there are
significant differences.
   Firstly, MITOSIS utilizes less-isolated, lightweight containers to reduce isolation costs, which
results in compromised isolation levels, as discussed in Section 5.2.1 and 8.1.1. Secondly, MITOSIS
is currently limited to supporting single-thread functions. Overcoming this limitation typically
requires specialized solutions that involve both the language runtime and the OS levels, complicating
the development of a universal “fork” solution. In contrast, TrEnv-X is built upon CRIU, which
supports the restoration of multi-threaded and multi-process environments more robustly. Although
MITOSIS achieves startup latencies of less than 4 ms for many single-threaded functions, initializing
real-world serverless functions that involve multiple processes and threads is inherently more
complex and costly. Furthermore, while both MITOSIS and TrEnv-X utilize kernel-space RDMA,
MITOSIS depends on a single container (i.e., the parent) to fork from, thus focusing primarily on
optimizing RDMA’s scalability. In contrast, TrEnv-X leverages disaggregated memory, focusing on
how memory is transparently shared. Moreover, TrEnv-X is designed to accommodate various
types of disaggregated memory technologies, including RDMA and CXL.
Storage Systems. Many researchers have tried to optimize serverless computing by enabling
more efficient state transfer [78, 87, 96]. They build scalable and distributed storage or cache
systems. These works are orthogonal to TrEnv-X and can be integrated to enhance TrEnv-X’s I/O
performance.


                                                                 , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
34                                                                                                         Jialiang et al.


11    Conclusion
We presented TrEnv-X, a serverless platform that achieves extreme elasticity by sharing resources.
It reduces isolation overhead through repurposable sandboxes and enables fast memory restoration
via mm-templates. Evaluating LLM-based agents, a representative serverless workload, observe
that their execution cost on existing serverless platforms is comparable to that of LLM inference.
To address this, TrEnv-X is extended to support VM-based agents, and introduce optimizations
such as browser sharing and DAX, which enable fast startup and high-density deployment. In our
evaluation, TrEnv-X in a container-based setup reduces memory usage by 48% and improves P99
latency by up to 7×, when compared against prior systems like FaaSnap and REAP. For VM-based
scenarios, TrEnv-X reduces agents’ memory usage by up to 61% and P99 latency by 58% compared
to E2B.

Acknowledgments
This work is supported by National Key Research & Development Program of China (2022YFB4502004),
Natural Science Foundation of China (62141216) and Tsinghua University Initiative Scientific Re-
search Program, Young Elite Scientists Sponsorship Program by CAST (2022QNRC001).

References
  [1] 2017. CVE-2017-5123. https://www.cvedetails.com/cve/CVE-2017-5123.
  [2] 2023. Azure Functions Premium plan. https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-premium-
      plan?tabs=portal#eliminate-cold-starts
  [3] 2023. Openwhisk Warmed Containers. https://github.com/apache/openwhisk/blob/master/docs/warmed-containers.
      md
  [4] 2023. Podman. https://docs.podman.io/.
  [5] 2023. Samsung, MemVerge, H3 Platform, and XConn Demonstrate Memory Pooling and Sharing for “Endless Memory”.
      Retrieved May 15, 2025 from https://memverge.com/samsung-memverge-h3-platform-and-xconn-demonstrate-
      memory-pooling-and-sharing-for-endless-memory/
  [6] 2025. Apache OpenWhisk. https://openwhisk.apache.org/
  [7] 2025. DAX (Direct Access). https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/filesystems/dax.txt
  [8] 2025. MetaGPT X (MGX). https://mgx.dev/
  [9] 2025. How to use Firefox containers. https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/how-use-firefox-containers.
 [10] 2025. Playwright. https://github.com/microsoft/playwright.
 [11] 2025. Vhost-user virtio-fs device backend written in Rust. https://gitlab.com/virtio-fs/virtiofsd
 [12] 2025. Virtiofs. https://virtio-fs.gitlab.io/
 [13] Alexandru Agache, Marc Brooker, Alexandra Iordache, Anthony Liguori, Rolf Neugebauer, Phil Piwonka, and Diana-
      Maria Popa. 2020. Firecracker: Lightweight virtualization for serverless applications. In 17th USENIX symposium on
      networked systems design and implementation (NSDI 20). 419–434.
 [14] Istemi Ekin Akkus, Ruichuan Chen, Ivica Rimac, Manuel Stein, Klaus Satzke, Andre Beck, Paarijaat Aditya, and Volker
      Hilt. 2018. SAND: Towards high-performance serverless computing. In 2018 USENIX Annual Technical Conference
      (USENIX ATC 18). USENIX Association, Boston, MA, 923–935. https://www.usenix.org/conference/atc18/presentation/
      akkus
 [15] Alibaba. 2025. Alibaba Cloud Function Compute. Retrieved May 15, 2025 from https://www.alibabacloud.com/en/
      product/function-compute
 [16] Alibaba. 2025. Configure the CPU overcommit ratio. https://www.alibabacloud.com/help/en/dedicated-host/user-
      guide/configure-the-cpu-overcommit-ratio
 [17] Mohamed Alzayat, Jonathan Mace, Peter Druschel, and Deepak Garg. 2023. Groundhog: Efficient request isolation in
      FaaS. In 18th European Conference on Computer Systems. ACM, Rome Italy, 398–415. doi:10.1145/3552326.3567503
 [18] Emmanuel Amaro, Christopher Branner-Augmon, Zhihong Luo, Amy Ousterhout, Marcos K. Aguilera, Aurojit Panda,
      Sylvia Ratnasamy, and Scott Shenker. 2020. Can far memory improve job throughput?. In 15th European Conference
      on Computer Systems. ACM, Heraklion Greece, 1–16. doi:10.1145/3342195.3387522
 [19] Amazon. 2025. AWS Lambda. Retrieved May 15, 2025 from https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/
 [20] Amazon. 2025. AWS Lambda Customer Case Studies. Retrieved May 15, 2025 from https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/
      resources/customer-case-studies/


, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
TrEnv-X : Transparently Share Serverless Execution Environments Across Different Functions and Nodes                     35


 [21] Lixiang Ao, Liz Izhikevich, Geoffrey M. Voelker, and George Porter. 2018. Sprocket: A serverless video processing
      framework. In 2018 ACM Symposium on Cloud Computing. ACM, Carlsbad CA USA, 263–274. doi:10.1145/3267809.
      3267815
 [22] Lixiang Ao, George Porter, and Geoffrey M. Voelker. 2022. FaaSnap: FaaS made fast using snapshot-based VMs. In
      17th European Conference on Computer Systems. ACM, Rennes France, 730–746. doi:10.1145/3492321.3524270
 [23] L.N. Bairavasundaram, M. Sivathanu, A.C. Arpaci-Dusseau, and R.H. Arpaci-Dusseau. 2004. X-RAY: a non-invasive
      exclusive caching mechanism for RAIDs. In 31st Annual International Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA’04).
      176–187. doi:10.1109/ISCA.2004.1310773
 [24] Daniel S. Berger, Daniel Ernst, Huaicheng Li, Pantea Zardoshti, Monish Shah, Samir Rajadnya, Scott Lee, Lisa Hsu,
      Ishwar Agarwal, Mark D. Hill, and Ricardo Bianchini. 2023. Design Tradeoffs in CXL-Based Memory Pools for Public
      Cloud Platforms. IEEE Micro 43, 2 (March 2023), 30–38. doi:10.1109/MM.2023.3241586
 [25] James Beswick. 2023. New for AWS Lambda – Predictable start-up times with Provisioned Concurrency. https://aws.
      amazon.com/cn/blogs/compute/new-for-aws-lambda-predictable-start-up-times-with-provisioned-concurrency/
 [26] Tim Bird. 2009. Measuring function duration with ftrace. In Proceedings of the Linux Symposium, Vol. 1. Citeseer.
 [27] Marc Brooker, Mike Danilov, Chris Greenwood, and Phil Piwonka. 2023. On-demand container loading in AWS
      Lambda. In 2023 USENIX Annual Technical Conference (USENIX ATC 23). 315–328.
 [28] James Cadden, Thomas Unger, Yara Awad, Han Dong, Orran Krieger, and Jonathan Appavoo. 2020. SEUSS: Skip
      redundant paths to make serverless fast. In 15th European Conference on Computer Systems. ACM, Heraklion Greece,
      1–15. doi:10.1145/3342195.3392698
 [29] Hang Cao, Cheng Xu, Yunqi Han, Muhui Lin, Kai Shen, Geng Wang, Jinhu Li, Xiangzheng Sun, Ronghui He, Liang
      You, et al. 2024. An efficient cloud-based elastic RDMA protocol for HPC applications. CCF Transactions on High
      Performance Computing 6, 1 (2024), 45–53.
 [30] Joao Carreira, Pedro Fonseca, Alexey Tumanov, Andrew Zhang, and Randy Katz. 2019. Cirrus: A serverless framework
      for end-to-end ML workflows. In 2019 ACM Symposium on Cloud Computing. ACM, Santa Cruz CA USA, 13–24.
      doi:10.1145/3357223.3362711
 [31] ChatGPT. 2025. Introducing Deep Research. Retrieved May 15, 2025 from https://openai.com/index/introducing-deep-
      research/
 [32] Youmin Chen, Youyou Lu, and Jiwu Shu. 2019. Scalable RDMA RPC on reliable connection with efficient resource
      sharing. In 14th European Conference on Computer Systems. 1–14.
 [33] Compute Express Link Consortium. 2025. CXL Specification. Retrieved May 15, 2025 from https://computeexpresslink.
      org/cxl-specification/
 [34] Marcin Copik, Grzegorz Kwasniewski, Maciej Besta, Michal Podstawski, and Torsten Hoefler. 2021. SeBS: A serverless
      benchmark suite for function-as-a-service computing. In 22nd International Middleware Conference. ACM, Québec
      city Canada, 64–78. doi:10.1145/3464298.3476133
 [35] CRIU. 2025. Checkpoint/Restore In Userspace. Retrieved May 15, 2025 from https://criu.org/
 [36] Debendra Das Sharma, Robert Blankenship, and Daniel Berger. 2024. An Introduction to the Compute Express Link
      (CXL) Interconnect. Comput. Surveys 56, 11 (Nov. 2024), 1–37. doi:10.1145/3669900
 [37] Datadog. 2023. The State of Serverless. https://www.datadoghq.com/state-of-serverless/
 [38] Aleksandar Dragojević, Dushyanth Narayanan, Orion Hodson, and Miguel Castro. 2014. FaRM: Fast remote memory.
      In 11th USENIX Conference on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (Seattle, WA) (NSDI’14). USENIX
      Association, USA, 401–414.
 [39] Dong Du, Qingyuan Liu, Xueqiang Jiang, Yubin Xia, Binyu Zang, and Haibo Chen. 2022. Serverless computing
      on heterogeneous computers. In Proceedings of the 27th ACM International Conference on Architectural Support for
      Programming Languages and Operating Systems. ACM, Lausanne Switzerland, 797–813. doi:10.1145/3503222.3507732
 [40] Dong Du, Tianyi Yu, Yubin Xia, Binyu Zang, Guanglu Yan, Chenggang Qin, Qixuan Wu, and Haibo Chen. 2020.
      Catalyzer: Sub-millisecond startup for serverless computing with initialization-less booting. In Proceedings of the
      Twenty-Fifth International Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems.
      ACM, Lausanne Switzerland, 467–481. doi:10.1145/3373376.3378512
 [41] E2B. 2025. Code Interpreting for AI Apps. Retrieved May 15, 2025 from https://e2b.dev/
 [42] Jake Edge. 2015. chroot(2) — Linux manual page. https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/chroot.2.html
 [43] Firecracker. 2025. Firecracker Snapshotting. https://github.com/firecracker-microvm/firecracker/blob/main/docs/
      snapshotting/snapshot-support.md
 [44] Alexander Fuerst, Stanko Novaković, Íñigo Goiri, Gohar Irfan Chaudhry, Prateek Sharma, Kapil Arya, Kevin Broas,
      Eugene Bak, Mehmet Iyigun, and Ricardo Bianchini. 2022. Memory-harvesting VMs in cloud platforms. In 27th ACM
      International Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems. ACM, Lausanne
      Switzerland, 583–594. doi:10.1145/3503222.3507725



                                                                    , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
36                                                                                                        Jialiang et al.


 [45] Alexander Fuerst and Prateek Sharma. 2021. FaasCache: keeping serverless computing alive with greedy-dual caching.
      In 26th ACM International Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems.
      ACM, Virtual USA, 386–400. doi:10.1145/3445814.3446757
 [46] Phani Kishore Gadepalli, Sean McBride, Gregor Peach, Ludmila Cherkasova, and Gabriel Parmer. 2020. Sledge: A
      serverless-first, light-weight Wasm runtime for the edge. In 21st International Middleware Conference. ACM, Delft
      Netherlands, 265–279. doi:10.1145/3423211.3425680
 [47] Google. 2025. The Container Security Platform. https://gvisor.dev/
 [48] Google. 2025. Google Cloud Run Functions. Retrieved May 15, 2025 from https://cloud.google.com/functions
 [49] Juncheng Gu, Youngmoon Lee, Yiwen Zhang, Mosharaf Chowdhury, and Kang G Shin. 2017. Efficient memory
      disaggregation with infiniswap. In 14th USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI
      17). 649–667.
 [50] gVisor. 2025. Checkpoint/Restore. https://gvisor.dev/docs/user_guide/checkpoint_restore/
 [51] H3. 2023. CXL 2.0 Memory Pooling Solution. Retrieved May 15, 2025 from https://www.h3platform.com/product-
      detail/overview/35
 [52] Sirui Hong, Mingchen Zhuge, Jonathan Chen, Xiawu Zheng, Yuheng Cheng, Jinlin Wang, Ceyao Zhang, Zili Wang,
      Steven Ka Shing Yau, Zijuan Lin, Liyang Zhou, Chenyu Ran, Lingfeng Xiao, Chenglin Wu, and Jürgen Schmidhuber.
      2024. MetaGPT: Meta programming for a multi-agent collaborative framework. In 12th International Conference on
      Learning Representations. https://openreview.net/forum?id=VtmBAGCN7o
 [53] Mengkang Hu, Yuhang Zhou, Wendong Fan, Yuzhou Nie, Bowei Xia, Tao Sun, Ziyu Ye, Zhaoxuan Jin, Yingru Li, Zeyu
      Zhang, Yifeng Wang, Qianshuo Ye, Ping Luo, and Guohao Li. 2025. OWL: Optimized workforce learning for general
      multi-agent assistance in real-world task automation. https://github.com/camel-ai/owl
 [54] Intel Corporation. 2025. Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual Combined Volumes 3A, 3B,
      3C, and 3D: System Programming Guide.
 [55] Sunita Jain, Nagaradhesh Yeleswarapu, Hasan Al Maruf, and Rita Gupta. 2024. Memory sharing with CXL: Hardware
      and software design approaches. doi:10.48550/arXiv.2404.03245 arXiv:2404.03245 [cs].
 [56] Seyyed Ahmad Javadi, Amoghavarsha Suresh, Muhammad Wajahat, and Anshul Gandhi. 2019. Scavenger: A black-box
      batch workload resource manager for improving utilization in cloud environments. In 2019 ACM Symposium on Cloud
      Computing. ACM, Santa Cruz CA USA, 272–285. doi:10.1145/3357223.3362734
 [57] Eric Jonas, Qifan Pu, Shivaram Venkataraman, Ion Stoica, and Benjamin Recht. 2017. Occupy the cloud: distributed
      computing for the 99%. In 2017 Symposium on Cloud Computing. ACM, Santa Clara California, 445–451. doi:10.1145/
      3127479.3128601
 [58] Stephen T. Jones, Andrea C. Arpaci-Dusseau, and Remzi H. Arpaci-Dusseau. 2006. Geiger: Monitoring the buffer
      cache in a virtual machine environment. In 12th International Conference on Architectural Support for Programming
      Languages and Operating Systems (San Jose, California, USA) (ASPLOS XII). Association for Computing Machinery,
      New York, NY, USA, 14–24. doi:10.1145/1168857.1168861
 [59] Artjom Joosen, Ahmed Hassan, Martin Asenov, Rajkarn Singh, Luke Darlow, Jianfeng Wang, and Adam Barker. 2023.
      How does it function? Characterizing long-term trends in Production serverless workloads. In 2023 ACM Symposium
      on Cloud Computing. ACM, Santa Cruz CA USA, 443–458. doi:10.1145/3620678.3624783
 [60] Jeongchul Kim and Kyungyong Lee. 2019. FunctionBench: A suite of workloads for serverless cloud function service.
      In 2019 IEEE 12th International Conference on Cloud Computing (CLOUD). IEEE, Milan, Italy, 502–504. doi:10.1109/
      CLOUD.2019.00091
 [61] Xinhao Kong, Jingrong Chen, Wei Bai, Yechen Xu, Mahmoud Elhaddad, Shachar Raindel, Jitendra Padhye, Alvin R
      Lebeck, and Danyang Zhuo. 2023. Understanding RDMA microarchitecture resources for performance isolation. In
      20th USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI 23). 31–48.
 [62] Andres Lagar-Cavilla, Junwhan Ahn, Suleiman Souhlal, Neha Agarwal, Radoslaw Burny, Shakeel Butt, Jichuan Chang,
      Ashwin Chaugule, Nan Deng, Junaid Shahid, Greg Thelen, Kamil Adam Yurtsever, Yu Zhao, and Parthasarathy Ran-
      ganathan. 2019. Software-defined far memory in warehouse-scale computers. In Proceedings of the 24th International
      Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems (Providence, RI, USA) (ASPLOS
      ’19). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 317–330. doi:10.1145/3297858.3304053
 [63] LangChain. 2025. The platform for reliable agents. https://www.langchain.com/
 [64] Huaicheng Li, Daniel S. Berger, Lisa Hsu, Daniel Ernst, Pantea Zardoshti, Stanko Novakovic, Monish Shah, Samir
      Rajadnya, Scott Lee, Ishwar Agarwal, Mark D. Hill, Marcus Fontoura, and Ricardo Bianchini. 2023. Pond: CXL-based
      memory pooling systems for cloud platforms. In 28th ACM International Conference on Architectural Support for
      Programming Languages and Operating Systems, Volume 2. ACM, Vancouver BC Canada, 574–587. doi:10.1145/3575693.
      3578835
 [65] Zijun Li, Jiagan Cheng, Quan Chen, Eryu Guan, Zizheng Bian, Yi Tao, Bin Zha, Qiang Wang, Weidong Han, and
      Minyi Guo. 2022. RunD: A lightweight secure container runtime for high-density deployment and high-concurrency


, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
TrEnv-X : Transparently Share Serverless Execution Environments Across Different Functions and Nodes                      37


      startup in serverless computing. In 2022 USENIX Annual Technical Conference (USENIX ATC 22). USENIX Association,
      Carlsbad, CA, 53–68. https://www.usenix.org/conference/atc22/presentation/li-zijun-rund
 [66] Zijun Li, Linsong Guo, Quan Chen, Jiagan Cheng, Chuhao Xu, Deze Zeng, Zhuo Song, Tao Ma, Yong Yang, Chao
      Li, et al. 2022. Help rather than recycle: Alleviating cold startup in serverless computing through Inter-Function
      container sharing. In 2022 USENIX annual technical conference (USENIX ATC 22). 69–84.
 [67] Xinbin Liang, Jinyu Xiang, Zhaoyang Yu, Jiayi Zhang, Sirui Hong, Sheng Fan, and Xiao Tang. 2025. OpenManus: An
      open-source framework for building general AI agents. doi:10.5281/zenodo.15186407
 [68] Teng Ma, Mingxing Zhang, Kang Chen, Zhuo Song, Yongwei Wu, and Xuehai Qian. 2020. AsymNVM: An efficient
      framework for implementing persistent data structures on asymmetric NVM architecture. In 25th International
      Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems. ACM, Lausanne Switzerland,
      757–773. doi:10.1145/3373376.3378511
 [69] Hasan Al Maruf, Hao Wang, Abhishek Dhanotia, Johannes Weiner, Niket Agarwal, Pallab Bhattacharya, Chris
      Petersen, Mosharaf Chowdhury, Shobhit Kanaujia, and Prakash Chauhan. 2023. TPP: Transparent page placement
      for CXL-enabled tiered-memory. In 28th ACM International Conference on Architectural Support for Programming
      Languages and Operating Systems, Volume 3. ACM, Vancouver BC Canada, 742–755. doi:10.1145/3582016.3582063
 [70] MemVerge. 2023. MemVerge CXL Technology. Retrieved May 15, 2025 from https://memverge.com/cxl-technology/
 [71] Dirk Merkel. 2014. Docker: Lightweight Linux containers for consistent development and deployment. Linux J. 2014,
      239, Article 2 (mar 2014).
 [72] Anup Mohan, Harshad Sane, Kshitij Doshi, Saikrishna Edupuganti, Naren Nayak, and Vadim Sukhomlinov. 2019.
      Agile cold starts for scalable serverless. In 11th USENIX Workshop on Hot Topics in Cloud Computing (HotCloud 19).
      USENIX Association, Renton, WA. https://www.usenix.org/conference/hotcloud19/presentation/mohan
 [73] Magnus Müller and Gregor Žunič. 2024. Browser Use: Enable AI to control your browser. https://github.com/browser-
      use/browser-use
 [74] Edward Oakes, Leon Yang, Dennis Zhou, Kevin Houck, Tyler Harter, Andrea Arpaci-Dusseau, and Remzi Arpaci-
      Dusseau. 2018. SOCK: Rapid task provisioning with serverless-optimized containers. In 2018 USENIX annual technical
      conference (USENIX ATC 18). 57–70.
 [75] OpenFaaS. 2025. faasd - a lightweight and portable version of OpenFaaS. Retrieved May 15, 2025 from https:
      //github.com/openfaas/faasd
 [76] OpenFaaS. 2025. OpenFaaS. Retrieved May 15, 2025 from https://www.openfaas.com/
 [77] Qifan Pu, Shivaram Venkataraman, and Ion Stoica. 2019. Shuffling, fast and slow: Scalable analytics on serverless
      infrastructure. In 16th USENIX symposium on networked systems design and implementation (NSDI 19). 193–206.
 [78] Francisco Romero, Gohar Irfan Chaudhry, Íñigo Goiri, Pragna Gopa, Paul Batum, Neeraja J. Yadwadkar, Rodrigo
      Fonseca, Christos Kozyrakis, and Ricardo Bianchini. 2021. Faa$T: A transparent auto-scaling cache for serverless
      applications. In 2021 ACM Symposium on Cloud Computing. ACM, Seattle WA USA, 122–137. doi:10.1145/3472883.
      3486974
 [79] Rohan Basu Roy, Tirthak Patel, and Devesh Tiwari. 2022. IceBreaker: Warming serverless functions better with
      heterogeneity. In 27th ACM International Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating
      Systems. ACM, Lausanne Switzerland, 753–767. doi:10.1145/3503222.3507750
 [80] Samsung. 2023. Samsung Develops Industry’s First CXL DRAM Supporting CXL 2.0. Retrieved May 15, 2025 from
      https://news.samsung.com/global/samsung-develops-industrys-first-cxl-dram-supporting-cxl-2-0
 [81] Divyanshu Saxena, Tao Ji, Arjun Singhvi, Junaid Khalid, and Aditya Akella. 2022. Memory deduplication for
      serverless computing with Medes. In 17th European Conference on Computer Systems. ACM, Rennes France, 714–729.
      doi:10.1145/3492321.3524272
 [82] Mohammad Shahrad, Rodrigo Fonseca, Inigo Goiri, Gohar Chaudhry, Paul Batum, Jason Cooke, Eduardo Laureano,
      Colby Tresness, Mark Russinovich, and Ricardo Bianchini. 2020. Serverless in the wild: Characterizing and optimizing
      the serverless workload at a large cloud provider. In 2020 USENIX annual technical conference (USENIX ATC 20).
      205–218.
 [83] Prateek Sharma and Purushottam Kulkarni. 2012. Singleton: System-wide page deduplication in virtual environments.
      In 21st international symposium on High-Performance Parallel and Distributed Computing. ACM, Delft The Netherlands,
      15–26. doi:10.1145/2287076.2287081
 [84] Simon Shillaker and Peter Pietzuch. 2020. Faasm: Lightweight isolation for efficient stateful serverless computing. In
      2020 USENIX Annual Technical Conference (USENIX ATC 20). 419–433.
 [85] Paulo Silva, Daniel Fireman, and Thiago Emmanuel Pereira. 2020. Prebaking functions to warm the serverless cold
      start. In 21st International Middleware Conference. ACM, Delft Netherlands, 1–13. doi:10.1145/3423211.3425682
 [86] Arjun Singhvi, Arjun Balasubramanian, Kevin Houck, Mohammed Danish Shaikh, Shivaram Venkataraman, and
      Aditya Akella. 2021. Atoll: A scalable low-latency serverless platform. In 2021 ACM Symposium on Cloud Computing.
      ACM, Seattle WA USA, 138–152. doi:10.1145/3472883.3486981


                                                                     , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
38                                                                                                          Jialiang et al.


 [87] Vikram Sreekanti, Chenggang Wu, Xiayue Charles Lin, Johann Schleier-Smith, Joseph E. Gonzalez, Joseph M.
      Hellerstein, and Alexey Tumanov. 2020. Cloudburst: Stateful functions-as-a-service. Proceedings of the VLDB
      Endowment 13, 12 (Aug. 2020), 2438–2452. doi:10.14778/3407790.3407836
 [88] Yuqiong Sun, David Safford, Mimi Zohar, Dimitrios Pendarakis, Zhongshu Gu, and Trent Jaeger. 2018. Security
      Namespace: Making Linux Security Frameworks Available to Containers. In 27th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX
      Security 18). USENIX Association, Baltimore, MD, 1423–1439. https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity18/
      presentation/sun
 [89] Yan Sun, Yifan Yuan, Zeduo Yu, Reese Kuper, Chihun Song, Jinghan Huang, Houxiang Ji, Siddharth Agarwal, Jiaqi
      Lou, Ipoom Jeong, et al. 2023. Demystifying CXL memory with genuine CXL-ready systems and devices. In 56th
      Annual IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Microarchitecture. 105–121.
 [90] Yupeng Tang, Ping Zhou, Wenhui Zhang, Henry Hu, Qirui Yang, Hao Xiang, Tongping Liu, Jiaxin Shan, Ruoyun
      Huang, Cheng Zhao, Cheng Chen, Hui Zhang, Fei Liu, Shuai Zhang, Xiaoning Ding, and Jianjun Chen. 2024. Exploring
      performance and cost optimization with ASIC-based CXL memory. In 19th European Conference on Computer Systems.
      ACM, Athens Greece, 818–833. doi:10.1145/3627703.3650061
 [91] Cloud Hypervisor developers. 2025. Cloud Hypervisor. Retrieved May 15, 2025 from https://www.cloudhypervisor.org/
 [92] DeepSeek-AI and Aixin Liu and Bei Feng and Bing Xue and Bingxuan Wang et al. 2025. DeepSeek-V3 Technical
      Report. arXiv:2412.19437 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.19437
 [93] OpenAI and Josh Achiam and Steven Adler and Sandhini Agarwal et al. 2024. GPT-4 Technical Report.
      arXiv:2303.08774 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.08774
 [94] Dmitrii Ustiugov, Plamen Petrov, Marios Kogias, Edouard Bugnion, and Boris Grot. 2021. Benchmarking, analysis,
      and optimization of serverless function snapshots. In 26th ACM International Conference on Architectural Support for
      Programming Languages and Operating Systems. ACM, Virtual USA, 559–572. doi:10.1145/3445814.3446714
 [95] Ao Wang, Shuai Chang, Huangshi Tian, Hongqi Wang, Haoran Yang, Huiba Li, Rui Du, and Yue Cheng. 2021. FaaSNet:
      Scalable and fast provisioning of custom serverless container runtimes at alibaba cloud function compute. In 2021
      USENIX Annual Technical Conference (USENIX ATC 21). 443–457.
 [96] Ao Wang, Jingyuan Zhang, Xiaolong Ma, Ali Anwar, Lukas Rupprecht, Dimitrios Skourtis, Vasily Tarasov, Feng Yan,
      and Yue Cheng. 2020. InfiniCache: Exploiting ephemeral serverless functions to build a cost-effective memory cache.
      In 18th USENIX Conference on File and Storage Technologies (FAST 20). USENIX Association, Santa Clara, CA, 267–281.
      https://www.usenix.org/conference/fast20/presentation/wang-ao
 [97] Liang Wang, Mengyuan Li, Yinqian Zhang, Thomas Ristenpart, and Michael Swift. 2018. Peeking behind the curtains
      of serverless platforms. In 2018 USENIX Annual Technical Conference (USENIX ATC 18). USENIX Association, Boston,
      MA, 133–146. https://www.usenix.org/conference/atc18/presentation/wang-liang
 [98] Xingda Wei, Fangming Lu, Tianxia Wang, Jinyu Gu, Yuhan Yang, Rong Chen, and Haibo Chen. 2023. No provisioned
      concurrency: Fast RDMA-codesigned remote fork for serverless computing. In 17th USENIX Symposium on Operating
      Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI 23). USENIX Association, Boston, MA, 497–517. https://www.usenix.org/
      conference/osdi23/presentation/wei-rdma
 [99] Xconn. 2023. Xconn Technologies. Retrieved May 15, 2025 from https://www.xconn-tech.com/
[100] Zhengjun Xu, Haitao Zhang, Xin Geng, Qiong Wu, and Huadong Ma. 2019. Adaptive function launching acceleration
      in serverless computing platforms. In 2019 IEEE 25th International Conference on Parallel and Distributed Systems
      (ICPADS). 9–16. doi:10.1109/ICPADS47876.2019.00011
[101] Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao. 2023. ReAct:
      Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models. In International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR).
[102] Yuval Yarom and Katrina Falkner. 2014. FLUSH+RELOAD: A high resolution, low noise, L3 cache side-channel attack.
      In 23rd USENIX security symposium (USENIX security 14). 719–732.
[103] Gyeong-In Yu, Joo Seong Jeong, Geon-Woo Kim, Soojeong Kim, and Byung-Gon Chun. 2022. Orca: A distributed
      serving system for transformer-based generative models. In 16th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design
      and Implementation (OSDI 22). 521–538.
[104] Mingxing Zhang, Teng Ma, Jinqi Hua, Zheng Liu, Kang Chen, Ning Ding, Fan Du, Jinlei Jiang, Tao Ma, and Yongwei
      Wu. 2023. Partial failure resilient memory management system for (CXL-based) distributed shared memory. In 29th
      Symposium on Operating Systems Principles. ACM, Koblenz Germany, 658–674. doi:10.1145/3600006.3613135
[105] Tian Zhang, Dong Xie, Feifei Li, and Ryan Stutsman. 2019. Narrowing the gap between serverless and its state with
      storage functions. In 2019 ACM Symposium on Cloud Computing. ACM, Santa Cruz CA USA, 1–12. doi:10.1145/
      3357223.3362723
[106] Yinmin Zhong, Shengyu Liu, and Jianbo Hu. [n. d.]. DistServe: Disaggregating prefill and decoding for goodput-
      optimized large language model serving. ([n. d.]).
[107] Yibo Zhu, Haggai Eran, Daniel Firestone, Chuanxiong Guo, Marina Lipshteyn, Yehonatan Liron, Jitendra Padhye,
      Shachar Raindel, Mohamad Haj Yahia, and Ming Zhang. 2015. Congestion control for large-scale RDMA deployments.


, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
TrEnv-X : Transparently Share Serverless Execution Environments Across Different Functions and Nodes                     39


      ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review 45, 4 (2015), 523–536.
[108] Tobias Ziegler, Dwarakanandan Bindiganavile Mohan, Viktor Leis, and Carsten Binnig. 2022. EFA: A viable alternative
      to RDMA over InfiniBand for DBMSs?. In 18th International Workshop on Data Management on New Hardware
      (Philadelphia, PA, USA) (DaMoN ’22). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 10, 5 pages.
      doi:10.1145/3533737.3538506




                                                                    , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: March 2026.
